
=== Illinois ===
ONT-STYLE: normal; FONT-VARIANT: normal; TEXT-DECORATION: none; font-family: "Times New Roman", serif; } p.content { font-size: 12.0pt; font-family: "Times
(Repealed) Section 407.8 Organization and Administration (Repealed) Section 407.9 Finances (Repealed) Section 407.10 General Requirements for Personnel (Re
ovisions Pertaining to Permits SUBPART C: ADMINISTRATION Section 407.70 Organization and Administration Section 407.80 Confidentiality of Records and Infor
for School-Age Children Section 407.230 Intergenerational Programs Section 407.240 Evening, Night, Weekend, and Holiday Care SUBPART F: STRUCTURE AND SAFE
y 1, 1998) Section 407.8 Organization and Administration (Repealed) (Source: Repealed at 22 Ill. Reg. 1728, effective January 1, 1998) Section 407.9 Financ
rt also establishes requirements for the daily operation of day care centers that serve children. The Child Care Act of 1969 excludes some facilities from
s those programs are exempt. d) Individuals, corporations, associations and groups may write to the Department of Children and Family Services and request
or advice regarding any aspect of the program operation. "Corporal punishment" means hitting, spanking, swatting, beating, shaking, pinching, excessive ex
dren. "Employee", as used in this Part, means any staff person employed by a child care facility and includes any substitute or assistant. This definition includes administrative, 
ofessional and support staff who have access to children in their present or prospective employment. "Enrollment" means the total number of children serv
this Part, means the board of directors of a corporation. Otherwise, the term means the owners or other persons, agency, association or organization legall
y responsible for the operation of the day care center that serves as the policy-making authority and that exercises general direc
and the Illinois Sex Offender Registry. "Intergenerational activities" means activities that involve children and adults in shared activities that occur at
, for the purposes of this Part, means Department staff authorized under the Child Care Act of 1969 to examine facilities for licensure. "Mitigation" means those activities or proc
for special events, or parental support and cooperation in the classroom. "Parent" or "Parents", as used in this Part, means persons assuming legal respon
staff duties as evidenced by being counted in the staff-child ratio or being allowed to be alone with children outside the visual or auditory supervision of chil
administrative responsibility for the ongoing operation of one or more sites (not to exceed 6) and who meets the qualifications for a child care director
et used to obtain water for drinking or food preparation for day care operations. Water sources include, but are not limited to, sinks, bathtubs, hoses, dr
ed to the application form: 1) Articles of incorporation and by-laws, if incorporated, indicating that the center's corporate status is in good standing wi
andards before the day care center changes its operations regarding the number or ages of children served. (Source: Amended at 43 Ill. Reg. 224, effective
enter by the Department 6 months prior to the expiration date of the license. b) The application for the renewal of a day care center license must be compl
itted to the Department 3 months prior to the expiration date of the current license in order for the application to be considered timely and sufficient. I
iling of a copy of the amended articles of incorporation or ownership agreement with the Department within 30 days after its effective date. d) When a lice
e time. h) The day care center shall not begin operations until the day care center receives a permit. i) A license shall be issued anytime within the six-
28, effective January 1, 1998) SUBPART C: ADMINISTRATION Section 407.70 Organization and Administration a) The members of the governing body of the day car
diately of major changes affecting any area of operation regulated by 89 Ill. Adm. Code 407, such as governance, location, physical plant, finances, staff,
inst the center that may negatively affect its operation and/or ability to maintain licensing standards. e) As a part of new staff orientation, the child c
risk management plan that identifies potential operational risks, specifies ways to reduce or eliminate the risks and establishes procedures to be followed
enter shall maintain records essential for the operation of the facility. Records pertaining to children in care and to staff shall be maintained at the da
be admitted to the center during the hours of operation for the purpose of determining compliance with the Child Care Act of 1969 and standards set forth
ild shall be confidential and limited to facility staff designated by the child care director and Department representatives unless the parent(s) of the child has granted written
es. 1) A written staffing plan shall organize the staff and enable them to give the children continuity of care and supervision. 2) Each staff person shall be qualified for his or 
child care staff shall be provided to assure that staff/child ratios are maintained as required by Section 407.190. 4) Staff changes shall be minimized so that e
oversee the program and administer day-to-day operations. The child care director shall be responsible for the planning and supervision of the program and
l be assigned to each group as needed to meet the staff/child ratios required by Section 407.190. 1) Early childhood assistants shall be assigned to infant, todd
to children shall comply with current State registration and/or certification laws, if applicable. h) Day care centers licensed for ten or fewer three- to
onal maturity when working with children; 2) Cooperation with the purposes and services of the program; 3) Respect for children and adults; 4) Flexibility,
d abuse or neglect report, rules governing the operation of the facility, and the legal protection afforded to persons who report violations of licensing s
if a planned in-service program is presented. 4) Staff serving children who require special program services shall receive in-service training and/or consultation on is
(see 89 Ill. Adm. Code 50.Subpart G). Newly hired staff serving children shall become members of the Gateways to Opportunity Registry within 30 days after hire. 6) The d
kitchen helpers and others assisting in the preparation, serving and handling of food and cooking/serving utensils shall make their positions known to the
service sanitation is on site to manage the preparation and/or service of food, including the service of catered food. This requirement does not apply if
ter hours of college credit in child care administration, leadership, or management; or C) 3 points of credential-approved training in child care administr
ter hours of college credit in child care administration, leadership, or management; or C) 3 points of credential-approved training in child care administr
rector may be in the classroom and counted in the staff/child ratio under the following circumstances: A) The day care center is licensed for 50 or fewer childre
esponsibilities for the first and last hour of operation, that shall include opening and closing the facility, when a qualified director is not present; an
nd 3) Are not counted for purposes of maintaining staff/child ratios, except as provided in Section 407.160(d) below. b) The day care center shall maintain recor
counted as assistants for purposes of maintaining staff/child ratios when all of the following conditions are met: 1) They have completed one year of a vocationa
outh aides does not exceed one-third of the total staff required to meet the staff-child ratio requirements at any one time. e) Students or youth aides shall not be considered as p
.190 Grouping and Staffing a) The group sizes and ratio of child care staff to children present at any one time shall be as follows: AGE OF CHILDREN STAFF/
CHILD RATIO MAXIMUM GROUP SIZE Infants (6 weeks through 14 months) 1 to 4 12 Toddlers (15 through 23 months) 1
ined, as allowed by Section 407.190(d) below, the staff/child ratio and maximum group size shall be based on the age of the youngest child in the group. d) Child
s Section during nap times, provided the required staff-to-child ratio is maintained on the premises. 1) Infants and toddlers shall be under the direct supervision
o meet the needs of all children. The appropriate ratio shall be determined through consultation among the parent, staff, resource personnel and the Depart
an appointment any time during normal hours of operation. c) The program shall include opportunities for a child to have free choice of activities to play
) A variety of activities which takes into consideration individual differences in interest, attention span, and physical and intellectual maturity; 2) Suf
quipment, and materials shall be arranged so that staff can be easily aware of the child's presence and activity at all times. j) Equipment shall be arranged in orderly, clearly de
available to them. k) Programs involving intergenerational activities shall conduct those activities according to Section 407.230. l) Materials and equipme
such as naps and feeding, shall take into consideration parents' information and wishes about the routines followed in the home. h) Infants and toddlers s
e shall provide a balance of activities in consideration of each child's total daily and weekly experience. f) A variety of developmentally appropriate act
fective January 1, 1998) Section 407.230 Intergenerational Programs a) The requirements of this Section shall apply to programs in which children and adult
d older adults are co-participants in an intergenerational program, a written statement shall be developed that includes: 1) The program's purpose and goal
efining the responsibilities of each. d) Intergenerational activities shall be guided by written plans that address the following: 1) The goals and objecti
potentially harmful behavior. f) During intergenerational activities the child care staff familiar to the child shall remain present. The ratio of child c
are staff to participating children shall remain in accordance with Section 407.190. Child care staff shall not be expected to super
each adult participant. h) Each time the intergenerational visit occurs, an attendance record shall be kept by the day care center which includes: 1) The f
rticipant for that day; 3) The full name of every staff member present from both the child care and adult programs. i) Prior to beginning an intergenerational program, the staff fr
paring children for participation in the intergenerational program. j) Signed permission shall be obtained from each child's parents, allowing participatio
n in the intergenerational program. This permission shall be maintained in the child's record. (Source: Added at 22 Ill. Re
y of his or her time at the center occurs between 6:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. c) Family-like groups of mixed ages are allowed during evening, night, weekend a
gest child present shall be used to determine the staff/child ratio and group size. d) Staff counted for purposes of meeting child/staff ratio requirements shall
ing area whenever children are sleeping. Nap time staff/child ratios may be applied to the children who are on their cots. e) Each child shall have an individual
lity throughout the night and are present between 6:30 a.m. and 8:30 a.m. (Source: Added at 22 Ill. Reg. 1728, effective January 1, 1998) SUBPART F: STRUC
an opportunity to observe during the hours of operation. c) The day care center shall provide publicly available written statements that include the follo
discharge policies and procedures: A) Hours of operation; B) Information regarding part-time enrollment, if applicable; C) Holiday and vacation schedules;
icy statements required by Section 407.250(c). h) Staff shall be informed of the child's enrollment before a child's first day of attendance and given the information necessary to 
needs shall be communicated in a timely manner to staff caring for the child. b) Child care staff shall conduct a daily pre-admission screening to determine if the child has obviou
child's physical and emotional well-being. 1) The staff shall refuse to release a child to any person, whether related or unrelated to the child, who has not been authorized by the
t or outside authorities arrive. 4) A policy that staff shall not hold the child responsible for the situation and that discussion of this issue will only be with the parent or gua
er possible; and 4) Be enforceable. c) Child care staff shall help individual children develop self-control and assume responsibility for their own actions. Imposing physical activ
o a child's pattern of unacceptable behavior, all staff who affect the child shall be aware of the plan and cooperate in its implementation. g) Clinical behavior management pla
This must be documented in the child's file. All staff working with the child shall receive training on implementing the plan. (Source: Amended at 44 Ill. Reg. 16138, effective
ughter or reckless homicide resulting from the operation of a motor vehicle within the past three years; 6) has signed and submitted a written statement ce
rtifying that he has not, through the unlawful operation of a motor vehicle, caused an accident which resulted in the death of any person within the five y
e manufacturer's rated passenger capacity. l) The staff/child ratios as listed in this subsection shall be maintained. 1) A driver alone may transport two infant
rted with children two years of age or older, the staff/child ratio shall be in accordance with Section 407.190. 5) When school-age children are transported for
program activities, the staff/child ratio shall be in accordance with Section 407.190. m) Age-appropriate safety restraints which are federal
rd is not necessary. f) All adults counted in the staff/child ratio for swimming shall receive basic water safety instruction from a person certified as a lifegu
subsection (e) of this Section. g) The following staff/child ratio shall be maintained when children are swimming, whether at the center or at other public or p
condition and the child is not in danger of dehydration; G) Mouth sores associated with the child's inability to control his or her saliva, until the chil
ll new linens shall be laundered prior to use. r) Staff and children shall wash hands as required by Section 407.320. (Source: Amended at 38 Ill. Reg. 17293, effecti
technique. As children are developmentally ready, staff shall teach children the proper hand-washing technique and assist and supervise the procedure as needed. (Source: Ame
purchased from a licensed catering service. Preparation of food, whether on or off site, shall comply with the Food Service Sanitation Code. A copy of the
Enforcement Act [410 ILCS 625]. c) None of the operations connected with routine food preparation shall be conducted in a room used for sleeping, caregivin
lean and equipped for preservation, storage, preparation and serving of food. e) Provisions shall be made for the cleaning and sanitization of dishes. f) A
ly by parents as part of holiday or birthday celebrations. Food brought in for this purpose must arrive unopened as packaged by the bakery or manufacturer,
on request. 2) Menu planning shall reflect consideration for cultural and ethnic patterns, and menus shall be nutritionally equivalent to the requirements
sh, wet paper towels; ii) Diapers; iii) Skin preparations prescribed by the child's doctor or requested by the child's parent; and iv) Disinfecting solutio
apering area shall be separate from any food preparation areas, and shall never be used for the temporary placement or serving of food. c) Changing surface
all not be counted as toilets in the toilet/child ratio. h) Lavatories (hand-washing sinks) and toilet facilities shall be provided in the ratios specified
ot counted when determining compliance with these ratios. Partially exempt programs are exempt from this standard. For restrooms used exclusively by school
ts and lavatories shall be readily accessible for staff use. o) Children and staff shall wash hands thoroughly according to Section 407.320 after using the toilet or ass
hildren. When children are allowed to get up, the staff to child ratio shall comply with Section 407.190(a). 4) Kindergarten and school-age children shall not be re
dication shall not be used beyond the date of expiration. f) When a child no longer needs to receive medication, the unused portion or empty bottle shall b
ld care during the hours that the center is in operation. The space used for child care may be shared by other groups or persons outside of the hours of op
eration. c) Infants and toddlers shall be housed and cared for at ground level unless otherwise approved t
l be cordless (free of external cords in their operation). B) All window coverings installed on or before August 15, 2014 may remain in place until replace
ntrol Act [225 ILCS 235/3.25], involving the cooperation between day care staff and pest control personnel or other specialists to use a variety of non-che
to children. s) Kitchen sinks used for food preparation shall not be used as hand-washing lavatories nor counted in the total number of hand-washing lavat
cult due to the design of the day care center, operation in multiple buildings on the same site or on multiple floors, an intercom or a written plan for ot
n groups shall be provided. 4) During hours of operation and at all times that children are present, there shall be a means for parents of enrolled childre
ers who may want to breastfeed during hours of operation, including a private area with an electrical outlet for mothers to pump their breast milk, and sha
th local health and safety officials, with consideration given to the following criteria: 1) Location; 2) Accessibility to children and staff by foot or th
d, no folding chairs), plus chairs with backs for staff. 2) One cot per child for programs that operate at least 5 hours per day. 3) One cot with blanket (for ill child). 4) She
materials for children to read themselves or for staff to read to/with children (books, magazines, comic books, cassette read-along books) -Games that include literacy (Scrabbl
nd community. F. Managing an effective program operation. G. Maintaining a commitment to professionalism. H. Observing and recording children's behavior. I

=== Georgia ===
particular location who is responsible for the operation and maintenance of the Home and who primarily provides care in the Home in accordance with these r
ant who will be responsible for the day-to-day operations shall complete the pre-service training listed below that has been approved by the Department and
ent's rules and regulations that relate to the operation of the Family Child Care Learning Home; 2. Pre-licensure training course on Provider competencies
es and regulations, for flagrant and continued operation of an unlicensed Home in contravention of the law, for prior denial or revocation of any License w
als as the Department may determine or at the expiration of the current License or Permit; 2. Upon receiving a report alleging child abuse, neglect or depr
the Department's representative to the Home, its Staff, or the Children receiving care at the Home or the records, maintained by or on behalf of the Home, to include bu
ng, Maintenance and other Support Staff for the duration of the term of employment plus one (1) calendar year, and it shall contain the following: identify
an; (h) childhood injury control; (i) the administration of medicine; (j) reducing the risk of Sudden Unexpected Infant Death (SUID) which includes Sudden
e and use of safe sleeping practices; (c) administration of medication, consistent with standards for parental consent; (d) prevention of and response to e
se of safe sleeping practices, medication administration, injury control and prevention, transportation, handling and storage of hazardous materials, ident
re water is over two feet in depth, the following Staff: Child ratios shall be maintained: Ages of Children Staff: Child Ratio Under 2 ½ 1:2 2 1/2 to 4 years 1:5
who cannot swim a distance of 15 yds. unassisted) 1:6 4 years & older (who can swim a distance of 15 yds. unassisted) 1:8 (b) In lieu of requiring each C
ailable to the Parents, and used to govern the operations of the Family Child Care Learning Home. (a) The policies and procedures shall include a written d
following: ages of children served, months of operation, days of operation, hours of operation, dates the Family Child Care Learning Home will be closed,
rmation requested by the Parent concerning the operation of the Family Child Care Learning Home or the care of the Child, including but not limited to a de
Personnel from foodborne illness. (12) Food Preparation Areas. The Home shall have a designated space for food preparation and in an area not used for dia
rt, food particles and grease deposits. Food preparation surface areas shall be nonporous with no unsealed cracks or seams. (13) Refrigeration. All perisha
e work and as often as necessary during food preparation and serving to remove soil and contamination. (19) Dishwashing. Non-disposable dishes and silverwa
eter, adhesive tape, band-aids, insect-sting preparation, antiseptic cleaning solution, antibacterial ointment, bandages, disposable rubber gloves, protect
on the premises of a Home during the hours of operation and no smoking signs must be posted. Smoking is also prohibited in any vehicle used to transport c
hildren during the hours that the Home is in operation. (m) Children shall be kept clean, dry and comfortable. (n) Pets in the Home shall be vaccinated i
and reunification with families, continuity of operations, accommodation of infants and toddlers, children with disabilities, and children with chronic med
act(s), the severity of the rule violation, the duration of non-compliance, the License Holder's prior Licensure or history, the voluntary reporting of the
rules and regulations, flagrant and continued operation of an unlicensed facility, or failure to pay the License fee. (d) The Department shall refuse to i
ue a License or Permit if the applicant or the operation or management of a Home knowingly or intentionally makes or causes another to make any false state
spection, survey, or investigation, or in the alteration or falsification of records maintained by the early care and education program. (e) The Department
ctable abuse, dereliction or deficiency in the operation or management of a Home within a reasonable time after having received notice from the Department.
abuse, dereliction or deficiency exists in the operation or management of the Home. (j) The Department shall revoke a License if a Home fails to pay the an
rtment shall revoke a License or Permit if the operation or management of a Home knowingly or intentionally makes or causes another to make any false state
spection, survey, or investigation, or in the alteration or falsification of records maintained by the early care and education program. (o) The Department
(n) A Home shall not permit the removal or obliteration of any notices of revocation, emergency action, resolution, or inspection survey report posted on
e granted in accordance with the following considerations: (a) Variance. A variance may be granted by the Department upon a showing by the applicant or pet
and variances to allow experimentation and demonstration of new and innovative approaches to delivery of services upon a showing by the applicant or petiti
ning Home for each Provisional Employee for the duration of employment or residency plus one year, and such electronic evidence must be made immediately av
ractors and residents age 17 and older) for the duration of employment or residency plus one year, and such electronic evidence must be made immediately av

=== New Hampshire ===
era Ready Normal Rebecca Ricard 2 1730 2025-08-27T19:44:00Z 2026-01-16T14:31:00Z 2026-01-16T14:31:00Z 87 88404 459703 NH General Court Info. Systems 12097
mption or use. (b) Applicant means a person, corporation, partnership, voluntary association, or other organization, either established for profit or other
mpleted training in medication safety and administration who are responsible for administration of medications to residents. (d) Child means child as defin
ication occurrence means any error in the administration of a medication as prescribed or in the documentation of such administration, with the exception o
ndividual who has responsibility for the daily operation of the residential child care program. (ax) Program staff means all staff, both professional and n
al program, excluding hospitals as defined in RSA 151:2, I(a), which provides residential SUD treatment relating to the youths medical, physical, psychosoc
child specific planning document prepared in cooperation with DCYF, JJS, a school district, or other placing or sending organization, or a treatment plan d
liance with the state fire code as defined in RSA 153:1 and as amended by rules adopted pursuant to RSA 153:3, including but not limited to, NFPA 1 and NFP
regarding the trade name, limited liability corporation, or corporation, as applicable, documenting approval to conduct business in New Hampshire, and tha
ions . (a) No less than 3 months prior to the expiration date of the current license, each licensee shall submit an application, to the unit, either online
sufficient degree of oversight of the programs operations to ensure that the program is complying with the provisions of RSA 170-E, this part, and any poli
having been made in accordance with He-C 4001, operation shall be discontinued immediately. (c) The department shall notify applicants or licensees affecte
I, the program shall immediately terminate its operation and not operate during the appeal process except under court order, or as provided by RSA 541-A:30
He-C 4001 or other law. (q) Requests for reconsideration or appeal of any decision by a hearings officer shall be filed within 30 days of the date of the d
ard of directors or other governing body, program staff, child care interns, child care assistants, and volunteers shall cooperate with the department during all departmental visit
e-C 4001. (k) For the purposes of (j) above, cooperation shall include, but not be limited to not interfering with efforts by representatives of the depart
that sets forth the line of authority for the operation of the program. Source. #2664, eff 3-30-84, EXPIRED: 3-30-90 New. #8581, eff 4-20-06, EXPIRED: 4-2
ular contact with residents. (e) When any program staff, intern, child care assistant, volunteer, resident, or household member has symptoms of a reportable communicable
b) Individuals who are participating in food preparation or food service shall: (1) Wash their hands as often as necessary to remove soil and contamination
ure bandage; and (3) Not participate in food preparation or food service activities when they have: a. An infection; b. A cut or wound which is running or
icable disease that could be spread via food preparation or food service. (c) Program staff shall not wash their hands after diapering or toileting in sink
s that are used for food preparation or clean up. (d) Program staff shall encourage each resident to brush their teeth each morning and
and ratified by the general court pursuant to RSA 153:5, consistent with the level of needs of residents served. (s) All programs shall have the following
(b) above, the program shall have an emergency operations plan (EOP), which shall: (1) Be based on the incident command system and coordinated with the eme
icies and procedures regarding medication administration, including at a minimum: (1) The documentation requirements; (2) A system for maintaining counts o
medication occurrences; (5) Protocols for administration of PRN medications; and (6) The control and safety of medication consistent with the requirements
of this section. (b) Administration of medication to residents shall be performed by authorized staff, registered nurses (RNs), licens
ten policies and procedures regarding the administration, documentation, control, and safety of medication; (2) Administer only those prescription medicati
of support needed specific to medication administration, including the residents: (1) Medication order(s) and medications prescribed; (2) Health status an
name, strength, prescribed dose, route of administration , and quantity of each medication provided to the person(s) outside the program, upon the resident
name, strength, prescribed dose, route of administration, and quantity of each medication, with an explanation of why the medication was not given per the
rength, the prescribed dose, and route of administration; (3) The frequency of administration; and (4) The dated signature of the licensed practitioner. (j
cial precautions or limitations regarding administration of the medication; (3) The maximum dosage allowed in a 24-hour period; and (4) The dated signature
e licensed practitioner. (k) Prior to the administration of medication, authorized staff shall obtain information specific to each medication, including, a
interactions; and (5) Special storage or administration procedures. (l) In the event of a medication occurrence, the authorized staff responsible for the
administration of the medication shall forward written notification to the program director by the close of the n
ocument training on medication safety and administration, as specified in (o) below. (o) Training in medication safety and administration, as required in (
nd (3) Address the following: a. The safe administration of medication, including but not limited to: 1. Administration of the correct medication; 2. Admin
istration of the correct dosage of the medication; 3. Administration of the medication to the correct reside
nt; 4. Administration of the medication to the resident at the correct times and frequency; 5. Administration of the med
to the resident by the correct method of administration; 6. Infection control and aseptic procedures related to administration of medication; and 7. Resid
occurrence related to the safe storage or administration of medication and reporting requirements regarding those issues; e. Conditions or situations requi
y medical intervention; and f. Methods of administration including, but not limited to oral, injection, topical application, or inhalation. (p) In addition
raining annually on medication safety and administration. (q) Documentation of training in medication safety and administration shall be maintained on file
he medication to the resident; and e. For administration of a PRN, documentation including the reason for administration and the name and title of the pers
clearly identified policy for storage and administration of naloxone that includes the following: (1) The process for regularly reviewing and updating the
ensuring regular review of naloxone kits for expiration; (3) A statement that staff shall call 911 immediately if naloxone is administered; and (4) A stat
all be: (1) Prepared immediately prior to administration; and (2) Prepared , identified, and administered by the same person in compliance with RSA 318-B a
Authorized staff may plan for medication administration off-site, such as for an outing or field trip, or at school when the school is on the same campus
eparing a dose or doses of medication for administration when the resident is off-site. Authorized staff shall not repackage medication for administration
a nurse delegates the task of medication administration to an individual not licensed to administer medications, the nurse shall follow the requirements o
rs for use in emergencies, in accordance with RSA 329:1-h, shall have and abide by a policy for the storage, maintenance, control, and general oversight of
s acquired by the program, in accordance with RSA 329:1-h, III. (am) Pursuant to RSA 329:1-h, V, programs that opt to obtain epinephrine auto-injectors und
ndards and procedures for the storage and administration of an epinephrine auto-injector; and c. Emergency follow-up procedures. (an) Programs shall keep o
ees Fahrenheit during sleeping hours. (j) Program staff, child care interns, and volunteers shall not smoke or use tobacco products while they are responsible for
pervision to residents at all times, to include a ratio of one staff to no more than 4 residents when no lifeguard is present; b. At least one staff person
ols used as part of the residential child care operation shall be maintained in accordance with the printed instructions of the manufacturer or installer r
egarding cleaning, filtration, and chemical treatment, and the following: a. Swimming pools shall be secured in a manner that is
ees Fahrenheit during sleeping hours. (j) Program staff, child care interns, and volunteers shall not smoke or use tobacco products while they are responsible for
pervision to residents at all times, to include a ratio of one staff to no more than 4 residents when no lifeguard is present; b. At least one staff person
ols used as part of the residential child care operation shall be maintained in accordance with the printed instructions of the manufacturer or installer r
egarding cleaning, filtration, and chemical treatment, and the following: a. Swimming pools shall be secured in a manner that is
ered to be public water systems as defined in RSA 485:1-a, XV and confirmed by the New Hampshire department of environmental services (NHDES), shall test t
a that: (1) Is not located in kitchens, food preparation or food service areas, or on surfaces where food is prepared or served; (2) Is located adjacent to
service and in-service training requirements at a ratio of 12 contact hours equal one credit; and (3) Conference sessions, workshops, non-credit correspond
the subject area in which they are teaching, at a ratio of 12 contact hours equals one credit. (g) The program director shall meet at least one of the foll
in the field of human services, business administration, or public administration , awarded by a regionally accredited college or university, plus 2 years
in the field of human services, business administration, or public administration, awarded by a regionally accredited college or university, plus 3 years
, discipline, restraints , counseling, or administration of medication; and (4) Not be included in the staff to resident ratio. (k) Supervision as referenc
eff 4-1-25 He-C 4001.20 Staffing Requirements and Ratios . (a) In all programs there shall be a program director that assumes responsibility for the daily
operation of the program. (b) Programs shall, at a minimum, maintain the following staff to resident ratios
homes shall maintain a minimum staff to resident ratio of one staff person to 8 residents during awake hours and one staff person to 12 residents during s
ograms shall maintain a minimum staff to resident ratio of one staff person to 6 residents during awake hours and one staff person to 12 residents during s
(3) SCPs shall comply with the staff-to-resident ratios in He-C 4001.30(r). (c) Notwithstanding the required minimum staff to resident ratios specified in
gnee has authorized the reduced staff to resident ratio, based upon their determination that the staff remaining on the premises of the program can meet th
t; and (2) In no case shall the staff to resident ratio go below one to 12. (d) Notwithstanding the staff to resident ratios set forth in (b) and (c) above
equires that a resident needs a staff to resident ratio that is more stringent than the required staff to resident ratios, the program shall comply with th
eet the needs of residents during all hours of operation. Source. #2664, eff 3-30-84, EXPIRED: 3-30-90 New. #8581, eff 4-20-06, EXPIRED: 4-20-14 New. #1057
ntly applied, realistic, designed to promote cooperation and respect, and are appropriate and understandable to the development level of the resident; (2)
le exempted from seat belt requirements under RSA 265:107-a, II. (h) Program staff shall secure residents via individual, age-appropriate child restraints or
seat belts in accordance with RSA 265:107-a. (i) Programs shall comply with RSA 126-U:12 regarding restrictions in the use of mechanical rest
001.21(e)(1), regarding responsibility for the operation and maintenance of the facility; (2) He-C 4001.17(e), specifically regarding residents access to c
written policies and procedures governing the operation of the program relative to the provision of services, available for review by the unit, that inclu
or, together with relevant members of the administration, clinical, and direct-care staff, shall annually review all policies and procedures and revise the
director who is responsible for the day-to-day operations of the SPC, who meets the requirements specified in He-C 4001.19(g); (2) Contract with or employ
director who is responsible for the day-to-day operations, who shall be at least 21 years of age and have a minimum of one of the following combinations of
ubstance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administrations (SAMHSA) Evidence-Based Practices Resource Center available at https://www.samhsa.gov/libraries/e
ubstance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administrations (SAMHSA) Knowledge Application Program (KAP) Resource Documents and Manuals (July 2020 edition),
th RSA 169-C:24-b, II(a)(3); (3) Community reintegration and transition tasks that identify the following: a. Specific needed supports or services that wou
f clinically necessary; and (5) Adult living preparation if determined clinically necessary. (n) Each domain identified in (m) above shall address: (1) The
vide and allow for increased community-based integration and involvement, based on progress and individualized needs; and (2) The clinical coordinator or a
: (1) There shall be a clinical staff to resident ratio of one clinical staff to 10 residents; (2) There shall be clinical services provided through the re
g: (1) There shall be a minimum staff to resident ratio of one staff to 4 residents during hours when residents are awake; and (2) There shall be an awake
te the background record check prior to their expiration of eligibility. (i) If the unit determines that an individual is ineligible, in accordance with RS
e shall be $500.00; (5) For a failure to cease operations after suspension, revocation, or denial of a permit or license, in violation of RSA 170-E:27, I,
e after a failure to renew the license by the expiration date, in violation of RSA 170-E:32, I and He-C 4001.03(a), the fine for an applicant, unlicensed p
rements specified in He-C 4002.34. (g) Authorized staff means child care staff that have completed training in medication safety and administration who are responsible
for administration of medications to children. (h) Center based program means any program owned and operated by one a
eans a person who is responsible for the daily operation of a small child care center, and who provides the child care for at least ⅔ of the operating hour
s. (l) Child care staff means: (1) All child care staff categories as specified in He-C 4002.33 and 4002.34; and (2) Agency administrator and si
vices are provided, who is responsible for the operation of the program, and who provides the child care for at least ⅔ of the operating hours. (aa) Family
) Medication error means any error in the administration of a prescribed or over-the-counter medication, or an error in the documented administration of an
of circumstances, or involve the same child care staff or the same child or children as in the original citation. (bh) Rough handling means an aggressive physical act against a chi
means behavior of such intensity, frequency, or duration that the safety of the child or others is placed in jeopardy. (bm) Site coordinator means a person
ed and approved by a local health officer, for operation as a program; (3) Written approval from the local fire inspector that, within the 12 months preced
inspected for compliance with Saf-FMO 300 and RSA 153:1 VI-a, by the local fire department or the state fire marshals office, and approved to operate as a
ition. (h) No less than 3 months prior to the expiration date of the current license, applicants for license renewal shall submit to the department the fol
ed and approved by a local health officer, for operation as a program ; (3) Written approval from the local fire inspector that, within the 12 months prece
inspected for compliance with Saf-FMO 300 and RSA 153:1 VI-a, by the local fire department or the state fire marshals office, and approved to operate as a
25, EXPIRES: 9-22-35 He-C 4002.05 Program Administration, Requirements for Reporting to the Unit, and License and Permit Requirements . (a) The program sha
ere is a motor vehicle accident involving program staff and children, or when children are involved in a motor vehicle accident during a program-sponsored trip involving a driver n
tion readily available for at least one year: (1) Staff records; (2) Staff and child attendance records; (3) Field trip permission slips; (4) Emergency operations plan (EOP) practi
14356, eff 9-22-25, EXPIRES: 9-22-35 He-C 4002.08 Staff and Child Attendance Records . (a) The program shall have a record of each childs attendance in each room tha
e that for each child there is a Child Care Registration and Emergency Information (August 2025) form, completed by the parent or guardian, or an equivalen
m. (c) The program shall ensure each childs registration and emergency information form or an equivalent form contains the following statements: (1) The li
as well as an unannounced visit prior to the expiration of a license every three years. CCLU also investigates allegations of non-compliance with licensin
eir class or group, the LC will ask the classroom staff which children they may interview, based upon your choice below. If you wish to be notified prior to an LC spea
ce: a. I give permission for child care licensing staff to speak with my child while with their class or group; b. I give permission for child care licensing staff to interview m
wish to be notified prior to child care licensing staff speaking with my child at the child care program separate from their class or group; and d. I do not give my permission fo
r child care licensing staff to speak with my child while with their class or group.; and (2) I hereby give permission for the staff of _______________
e-C 4002.11 Children Who Are Ill . (a) Child care staff shall observe each child, each day upon arrival and throughout the day for injuries and symptoms of illness which: (1) Impai
the other children in their care. (b) Child care staff shall provide any child who is ill an opportunity to rest or an opportunity to do a quiet activity in a comfortable, superv
ccordance with the following: (1) When child care staff or children in the program have symptoms of or are known to have a communicable disease to determine whether
(d), and He-P 301.03(h). (e) When any child care staff or children in the program have symptoms of or are known to have a communicable disease any spills of bodily
aid supplies; b. The location of child care registration and emergency information forms; c. The name, address, and telephone number of the hospital to whi
n, video, and electronic devices; (3) The administration of medication to children; (4) Excluding children when they are ill, including symptoms, and when
urrent weather conditions; and (3) How child care staff will monitor children regarding their comfort including their warmth or signs of overheating and the action child care
staff will take in response to childrens comfort related to the weather conditions. (d) The program shall provide all written policies t
shall conduct at least one drill each month of operation; (2) Programs that operate only during the school year shall conduct a drill within 14 days of ope
shall conduct one fire drill in each month of operation; (4) Child care staff shall conduct fire drills at varying times during operating hours, including
entities. (f) Programs shall have an emergency operations plan (EOP) prior to issuance of a permit or renewal of a license. (g) All EOPs shall include acco
reat or scan. (h) Programs that plan to resume operations after an emergency shall have a continuity of operations plan ( COOP ) to ensure that essential f
OP drills, other than evacuation drills, with all staff and children each calendar year. (m) The program manager or their designee shall record and maintain on file
r review of on-line training; (4) The name of all staff and children that participated, as applicable; and (5) The signature and date of the person conducting the dr
is engaging in unacceptable behavior, child care staff shall: (1) Redirect a childs attention to a desirable activity by providing positive guidance, positively worded directions, 
has occurred. (c) Child care staff shall use separation from the group only as a method to enable a child to regain control of themselves, and not as a pu
nitive disciplinary technique. Child care staff shall check in with children to determine when they are ready to rejoin the group. (d) When a child is separated from the gro
en and be within hearing and vision of child care staff, except when child care staff remove a child from the classroom to a quieter area which is visible by other child care
esting during naptime; (13) Yell in anger or frustration at or in the presence of children; (14) Use profanity or obscene language with children or among t
handling, or other harsh treatment by child care staff; (5) To report that their child was physically injured because they were not supervised; or (6) To report that their childs h
t could result in serious bodily harm, child care staff may move the child to another area, holding the child as gently as possible and as briefly as necessary to protect the
pment, and approaches to learning. (c) Child care staff shall not allow children to provide care to other children, such as feeding infants, picking up infants or toddlers, chan
activity daily. (e) When taking children outside, staff shall assure that children are appropriately dressed for the weather conditions and shall monitor the children regularly fo
fort in both hot and cold weather. (f) Child care staff shall not allow a child to go outside when the child has a health concern as documented on their allergy care plan or as do
pecial occasions such as birthday or holiday celebrations or visitor presentations; (2) When there are 17 or fewer children present in the program, includi
ntion and Management of Injuries . (a) Child care staff shall supervise every child in care at all times. (b) In center -based programs, staff shall: (1) Know the number and identi
level as the classroom, provided that child care staff are aware of each child leaving the classroom to use the bathroom and the level of the building that the bathroom is locate
accordance with the following: (1) The child care staff may step away from the children to meet basic care needs throughout the day, provided that: a. The time away is time limited
hysically respond immediately; (3) The child care staff may allow school-age children 6 years of age and older to play outside when the child care staff is inside, with written par
respond immediately to any child. (f) Child care staff shall not carry a child while stepping over a low wall, gate, or other similar barrier. (g) Child care staff shall protect
. The names, doses, and methods of prompt administration of any medications, where the medication needs to be stored in relation to the child, taking into
consideration the storage requirements in He-C 4002.20(j)(2), and instructions on how to administer the prescrib
ations. (i) At all times, at least one child care staff supervising a child with an allergy care plan shall have completed the training specified in He-C 4002.32(b)(5). (j) Th
an and treatment plan in the kitchen or food preparation area, the child's classroom, and wherever the child might have contact with the allergen(s). (l) I
m) All child care staff responsible for food preparation and food service, and all child care staff responsible for supervising children with an allergy, i
hild to emergency services, as soon as child care staff have determined that the child cannot be promptly located on the premises of the child care program. (r) There shall be at l
ne staff person present with all children during all operating hours, both on and off premises , who is trained and currently certified in
2-35 (formerly He-C 4002.20) He-C 4002.20 Administration and Storage of Medication . (a) For the purposes of this section, administer means an act whereby
rength, the prescribed dose and method of administration; (3) The frequency of administration; (4) The indications for usage of all medications to be used
cial precautions or limitations regarding administration of the medication; (2) The maximum dosage allowed in a 24-hour period; (3) The dated signature of
In the event of a medication error in the administration of medication, the family child care provider, center director, site director, or designee shall n
plete and document training on medication administration, as required by He-C 4002.32(b)(4), delivered by the department, a physician, RN, or LPN practicin
omplete training in medication safety and administration every year. (h) For each child receiving medication, child care staff shall maintain medication in
d the medication to the child; and e. For administration of a PRN, documentation shall also include the reason for administration. (j) All medication shall
pi-pens shall be readily accessible to child care staff caring for children requiring such medications, to assure timely administration when needed and in accordance with p
o the program, disposed of properly by authorized staff. (r) Child care staff shall administer over-the-counter medications in accordance with the manufacturers instr
s for use in emergencies, i n accordance with RSA 329:1-h, II, shall have and abide by a policy for the storage, maintenance, control, and general oversigh
acquired by the program, for compliance with RSA 329:1-h, III. (t) Pursuant to RSA 329:1-h, V , programs that opt to obtain a prescription for epinephrine
ndards and procedures for the storage and administration of an epinephrine device; and c. Emergency follow-up procedures; and (4) The certificate of comple
ll-lit and arranged to provide clear pathways for staff and children to move about safely and to allow for the visual supervision of children by staff; (5) Free of d
ren; (2) When bringing animals into a child care, staff shall supervise children when the animals are available, designated areas shall be cleaned and sanitized after animal con
while cleaning animal cages or habitats; (5) All staff and children shall wash hands with soap and warm running water after contact with animals or their cages or h
proved by the local fire official. (y) Child care staff shall be in the room with children whenever a fireplace is in use. (z) All working fireplaces in space used by children shal
f the work. (ad) Construction, remodeling, or alteration of structures during child care operations shall be done in a manner as to prevent exposure of chi
are program and used as part of the child care operations shall be clean and maintained in accordance with the manufacturers or installers printed instruct
ions regarding cleaning, filtration, and chemical treatment. (l) All swimming pools on the premises of the child care program shall be
that are accessible to children . (e) Child care staff shall not allow children younger than 3 years of age to have access to toys, toy parts, and other materials that pose a s
e side only, allowing for adequate supervision by staff and air circulation; and (3) Children are placed head to toe. (b) Programs shall ensure that each child requiring rest or sl
or; (2) The child care staff required to maintain ratio are located in an adjoining room where they can easily hear sounds from the monitor and respond; an
pportunity to do a quiet activity. (q) Child care staff shall not: (1) Require that children who are awake stay on mats, sleeping bags, cots, or beds for more than 60 minutes; or (
staff person in a classroom than required to meet ratios in accordance with He-C 4002.35 through He-C 4002.36 provided that: (1) The total number of child
care staff required to maintain all ratios are on the premises of the program; (2) The ratio of awake children to staff in the classroom shal
ng rest and sleep, programs shall always maintain ratios for children under 24 months, in accordance with He-C 4002.35 and 4002.36, except as specified in
(t) below. (t) Ratios for children under 24 months in mixed age groups with children 24 months and older shall be based
dance with (s) above. (u) Programs shall base the staff to child ratio on the average age of the children in each group in accordance with (t) above when there are
ered to be public water systems as defined in RSA 485:1-a, XV and confirmed by the New Hampshire department of environmental services (NHDES), shall test t
blished in Env-Dw 714 for stagnant copper and RSA 485:17-a for stagnant lead , and when the manganese level exceeds 0.3 mg/L, as established in Env-Or 602.0
priate to the childs development and ability. (c) Staff shall be able to hear children and respond when children need assistance and to prevent unsafe behavior. (d) Programs licens
s staff shall not place potty chairs in food preparation areas or food service areas. (g) Program staff shall empty and sanitize each potty receptacle afte
ing area shall not be in kitchens or in food preparation or food service areas, or on surfaces where food is prepared or served. (e) In addition to the req
washing after diapering or toileting if food preparation or washing dishes or eating utensils occurs in the sink. (g) At least every 2 hours, child care st
dication; and (7) Before and during any food preparation or service as often as necessary to remove soil and contamination and prevent cross contamination
or from raw to ready to eat foods. (b) Child care staff shall: (1) Teach children the importance of hand washing with liquid soap and running water; and (2) Instruct, encourage,
(5) above. (c) Sinks that are used for food preparation or clean up, including sinks used for getting water for baby bottles, rinsing bottles, or dishes,
ligious, or philosophical beliefs. (e) Child care staff familiar with childrens allergy action plans and known allergens shall take steps to ensure that children are not serve
ation . (a) Programs that opt to allow child care staff to take children on routine or unplanned local trips, such as walks in the neighborhood, trips to the local libra
roved destinations and activities. (b) Child care staff who take the children off the premises for trips under (a) above shall call parents or guardians or post a notice at t
ft alone in a vehicle at any time. (f) Child care staff shall not permit any child to remain in any vehicle unattended by staff of the child care program. (g) Any vehicle used to t
for and used by each child in accordance with RSA 265:107-a, and the driver and any other adults shall use their seatbelts when transporting children; and (3
children remain seated when the vehicle is in operation. (i) Child care staff shall carry on all field trips: (1) A copy of each childs registration and e
for the field trip; (4) A record documenting that staff accounted for each child every time they entered or exited the vehicle; (5) All emergency and currently prescribed child med
are program and used as part of the child care operations shall be supervised in accordance with the following: (1) Child care staff shall supervise childr
ing pools that have water in them; (2) Child care staff shall not allow children inside the wading pool, swimming pool area, or in the swimming pool without adult supervision; a
l always be present with children. (m) Child care staff who are responsible for children engaged in water activities shall be able and willing to immediately respond to any child i
mployed by the program shall not be considered as staff to meet required staff to child ratios and supervision unless they are responsible only for the children participating in th
trip. (o) The program manager shall maintain staff to child ratios and minimum staffing requirements during routine daily transportation and other routine trip
he maximum group size shall be 8 children, with a ratio of one staff to 2 children; (2) For children ages 36 to 47 months the maximum group size shall be 1
2 children, with a ratio of one staff to 4 children; (3) For children ages 48 to 59 months the maximum group size shall be 18 children, with a ratio of one staff to 6
e maximum group size shall be 24 children, with a ratio of one staff to 8 children. (q) Center-based programs shall staff field trips in accordance with th
e maximum group size shall be 6 children, and the ratio shall be one staff to 3 children; (2) For children ages 19 to 35 months the maximum group size shal
l be 12 children, with a ratio of one staff to 4 children; (3) For children ages 36 to 47 months the maximum group size shall be 18 children, with a ratio of one staff to 6
e maximum group size shall be 20 children, with a ratio of one staff to 8 children; and (5) For children ages 56 months and older, if licensed as a school
e maximum group size shall be 24 children, with a ratio of one staff to 10 children. (r) At least one child care staff or volunteer with each group of chil
ith children. (s) In a center -based program, the staff to child ratio and maximum group size for a mixed age group of children participating in any field trip or w
ements specified in He-C 4002.33, and the minimum staff to child ratios and staffing levels as follows: (1) There shall be one staff member for every 2 children, 35
and (2) For children ages 3 years and older, the ratio shall be determined by the age of the youngest child in the group as follows: a. If the youngest ch
ild is 3 years old, there shall be one staff member for every 4 children; b. If the youngest child is 4 years old , there shall be one staff member for every 6 children;
ld is 5 years of age or older, there shall be one staff member for every 8 children. (v) Child care staff who meet the requirements of at least a group leader in a school-age progr
ter safety and rescue, or a lifeguard, child care staff shall prohibit each child who cannot swim from going into water that reaches higher than their knees. Source. #4871, eff 7-2
rvision of children, or who are necessary for the staff to child ratios, shall have on file documentation of completion of training in accordance with (b) below, wh
nts 12 months and younger; (4) Medication administration; (5) Prevention of and response to emergencies due to food and other allergic reactions; (6) Build
ng on all required components in the emergency operations plan as specified in He-C 4002.16; (9) Handling and storage of hazardous materials and the approp
; and (3) Complete training on medication administration prior to administering medication to children. (d) Child care staff who have not yet completed the
er who works alone with children or is counted in staff-to-child ratios shall complete the health and safety trainings as required by (b) above and 3 hours of annua
vior guidance; (7) Leadership, child care administration, or mentoring; (8) Financial management; (9) Working with families; or (10) Legal issues in child
bureau of child development and head start collaboration, NH early childhood professional development system in accordance with RSA 170-E:50; b. Has at lea
of a child care worker; (3) Not be calculated in staff to child ratios as specified in (m) through (p) below; and (4) Not be required to complete professional deve
ectors shall: (1) Be responsible for the daily operation of the program and ensure the programs compliance with He-C 4002; and (2) Designate a staff person
ed to be on the premises in order to meet minimum staff to child ratios shall meet the minimum qualifications of a lead teacher. (e) The only exception to (d) above
of education; d. Certification in a teacher preparation program accredited by the Montessori Accreditation Council for Teacher Education (MACTE) in infant
recognition; (4) A credential from a teacher preparation program accredited by MACTE; (5) Five years as a licensed family child care provider with no enfor
of an associate teacher; (3) Not be calculated in staff to child ratios as specified in He-C 4002.35 through He-C 4002.37 and He-C 4002.39; and (4) Not be required
r. (u) Project leaders shall not be calculated in staff to child ratios as specified in He-C 4002.38. Source. #7294, eff 5-26-00; ss by #9160, INTERIM, eff 5-26-08;
n, unless otherwise specified. (b) Programs shall staff group child care centers with at least one associate or lead teacher per group. (c) For children ages 36 months
sent. (g) Group child care centers shall base the staff to child ratio and group size on the average age of the children in the group when there are mixed ages in t
onths, group child care centers shall comply with staff to child ratios and requirements specified in He-C 4002.36. Source. #7294, eff 5-26-00; ss by #9160, INTERIM
sed as infant and toddler programs shall base the staff to child ratio and group size on the average age of the children in each group when there are mixed age grou
is section. (b) Preschool programs shall meet the staff to child ratio requirements specified in He-C 4002.35(b) through (g), as applicable. (c) Preschool programs
. (g) The maximum group size shall be 45 with one staff for every 15 children. (h) In addition to the staffing requirements in (f) above, programs licensed as school-age prog
or the school-age children during the hours of operation of the school-age program when 9 or more school age children are present. (j) When 8 or fewer scho
s during the evening or night time hours, between 7:00 PM and 5:00 AM shall be licensed to operate as a night care program. (b) Center-based night care pr
rements specified in He-C 4002.34. (d) Child care staff shall not allow children attending a night care program to remain in the program for more than a total of 13 hours in any
to check on the sleeping children. (g) Child care staff shall provide each child in a night care program with clean bedding and a bed or crib with a mattress, a cot, or sleeping ba
o might be alone with children or are included in staff to child ratios; and (5) Household members 18 years of age and older, or when turning 18 years of age. (c) B
7294, eff 5-26-00; ss by #9160, INTERIM, eff 5-26-08: 11-22-08; ss by #9310, eff 11-23-08 (from He-C 4002.08); ss by #12046, INTERIM, eff 11-19-16; ss by #1
with He-C 4002, the program shall discontinue operations immediately. (l) The department shall notify applicants or licensees of a decision of the departm
I, the program shall immediately terminate its operation and not operate while an administrative hearing is pending except under court order or as provided
revoke or deny becomes final, but before the expiration of the 5 years referenced in (y) above, provided revocation or denial was the result of non-compli
e-C 4003.02 Applicability . (a) All persons, corporations, trusts, authorities, government agencies, political subdivisions, or any other entities shall co
nt means an individual, agency, partnership, corporation, government entity, association, or other legal entity seeking a license to operate a YRC pursuant
rator means the individual responsible for the operation and management of a YRC. (e) Camp director means the individual in charge of the day-to-day operat
medical care of campers and YRC staff. (u) In operation means campers are in attendance at a YRC. (v) Junior counselor (JC) means an individual who works
ities, camping, and tenting; (2) Occurs for the duration of one night or longer; and (3) Occurs outside of the normal sleeping quarters of the YRC. (y) Per
governmental subdivision, public or private corporation, individual, partnership, or other entity. (zy) Public water system (PWS) means public water syste
m as defined in RSA 485:1-a, XV. (aa) Recreation camp means recreation camp as defined in RSA 170-E: 55, I namely, any place
fire code means state fire code as defined in RSA 153:1, VI-a. (ah) Statement of findings means a written report issued by the unit which details the findi
or entity that owns and is responsible for the operation and management of a YRC. (am) YRC staff means the individuals employed by, contracted with, or vol
following: a. Certificate of Authority, if a corporation; b. Certificate of Formation, if a limited liability corporation; or c. Certificate of Trade Name,
ment statutes and rules that apply to the YRCs operation; (4) The name of the YRC; (5) The location of the YRC by street and municipality; (6) The effectiv
inspect each licensed YRC, while the YRC is in operation, to determine compliance with He-C 4003. (c) The unit shall issue a statement of findings , which
s of the department at any time the camp is in operation for the purpose of investigation or visit; (9) Fails to provide, maintain, equip, and keep in safe
, III, the YRC shall immediately terminate its operation and not operate while an administrative hearing is pending, except under court order or as provide
24 hours when the licensee voluntarily ceases operations; (4) Within 24 hours of any changes in operation due to an emergency, such as a natural disaster
ith a known allergen that did not require administration of epinephrine or calling emergency responders. (g) Within 48 hours of the incidents described in
idence camps shall have a minimum staff to camper ratio as follows: (1) One staff for every 6 campers ages 5 years to 8 years; (2) One staff for every 8 ca
f) Day camps shall have a minimum staff to camper ratio of one staff to 15 campers. Source. #12981, INTERIM, eff 1-24-20, EXPIRED: 7-22-20 New. #13073, eff
gs of camp facilities used for food storage, preparation, or consumption shall be equipped with screens with a mesh having at least 18 strands by 16 strand
shall be arranged to provide a minimum floor area ratio of 40 square feet per single bunk and 60 square feet per double bunk; (2) Suitable protection shall
(a) Water used at the YRC for drinking, food preparation, and cleanup shall comply with the drinking water standards for bacteria and nitrates specified in
red to be a public water system as defined in RSA 485:1-a, XV and confirmed by the NH department of environmental services (NHDES) shall have its drinking
red to be a public water system as defined in RSA 485:1-a, XV and confirmed by the NHDES shall have its drinking water analyzed for: (1) Bacteria every 3 m
YRC staff member shall be skilled in the safe operation of the craft for the specific activity; and (4) There shall be a safety accounting system in place
ined inside the areas used for food storage, preparation, or consumption. (b) Garbage and refuse c ontainers stored outdoors and dumpsters, compactors , an
response personnel even when the YRC is not in operation, notice as specified in (a) above shall be required only if requested by the local emergency respo
4003.28) He-C 4003.30 Storage, Handling, and Preparation of Food; Food Service; Kitchens . YRC staff shall assure that all food and drink served to campers
; (2) Filtered by the use of a drinking water filtration device intended to remove microorganisms; or (3) Disinfected by achieving a rolling boil for one m
ion, treatment, or special restrictions or considerations while at the YRC, including the need for specially trained personnel and proper equipment to meet
3-35 (formerly He-C 4003.38) He-C 4003.40 Administration of Medication . (a) The availability, use, and possession of epinephrine devices and asthma inhale
strength, prescribed dose, and method of administration of the medication; (3) The frequency of administration of the medication, or if the medication is
cial precautions or limitations regarding administration of the medication; (2) The maximum dosage allowed in a 24-hour period; (3) The dated signature of
ocument training on medication safety and administration or training delivered by a physician, an APRN, an RN, or an LPN practicing under the direction of
ecognized course on medication safety and administration having standards that are no less stringent than the Academy of Pediatrics on-line course, Medicin
e Administration in Early Education and Child Care. (o) YRC staff administering medications shall complete training
in medication safety and administration every 3 years. (p) For each camper receiving medication, the YRCs licensed practitioner shall main
specified in He-C 4003.40 and any special considerations for administration of the medication; (2) Written authorization from the campers parent or legal
provided pursuant to He-C 4003.40 in the administration of a medication and the reason why the medication was not taken as ordered or approved; d. The dat
ered the medication to the camper; e. For administration of an as-needed medication, the reason for administration; and f. Any other information that is re
levant to the administration of the medication. (s) In the event of any deviation from the administration of medication as desc
t of an error in the documentation of the administration of medication, the camp director or designee shall identify the error and provide correct informat
ed by the residence camp, for compliance with RSA 329:1-h, III. (v) Pursuant to RSA 329:1-h, V., YRCs that opt to obtain a prescription for epinephrine dev
ndards and procedures for the storage and administration of an epinephrine device; and c. Emergency follow-up procedures; and (4) The certificate of comple
(4) Seclusion shall not include the voluntary separation of a camper from a stressful environment for the purpose of allowing the camper to regain self-con
trol, when such separation is to an area which a camper is able to leave, there is no physical barrier, and the camper is phy
riminal history records check as described in RSA 189:13-a is completed on each employee and volunteer of the public or nonpublic institution who might be l
has primary responsibility for the day-to-day operation and management of a YSC. The YSC operator might also be the YSC owner; (h) YSC owner means the per
hat owns and is ultimately responsible for the operation and management of a YSC. The YSC owner might also be the YSC operator; and (i) Validated database
alties for unsworn falsification specified in RSA 641:3 or any subsequent statute if the information is false, incomplete, or misleading. (d) If any camp s
ubstance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administrations (SAMHSA) Evidence-Based Practices Resource Center , as accessed and printed on January 27, 2025 P
ubstance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration Cost: Free of Charge The incorporated document is available at: https://www.samhsa.gov/libraries/e
ubstance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administrations (SAMHSA) Knowledge Application Program (KAP) Resource Documents and Manuals (July 2020) Publisher
ubstance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration Cost: Free to the Public The incorporated document is available at: https://www.samhsa.gov/kap/res
0-E:34, I(a)(4), (5), (6), (7); RSA 170-E:42; RSA 329:1-h He-C 4001.16 RSA 170-E:34, I(a)(4); RSA 126-U:5-b He-C 4001.17 RSA 170-E:34, I(a)(4), (5) He-C 40
, I(a)(5) He-C 4001.25 RSA 170-E:34, I(a)(5); RSA 265:107-a; RSA 126-U:12 He-C 4001.26 RSA 170-E:25, II(d); RSA 170-E:34, I(a); RSA 170-E:34, I(a)(1), (5) He
, (e), (g), and (h); 45 CFR 98.41(a)(1)(iii); RSA 329:1-h He-C 4002.21 RSA 170-E:11, I(d); 45 CFR 98.41(a)(1)(v); RSA 170-E:6, 8, and 9 He-C 4002.22 RSA 17
He-C 4002.31 RSA-170-E:11, I(a) through (e); RSA 265:107-a; 45 CFR 98.41(a)(1)(ix); 45 CFR 98.41(d) He-C 4002.32 RSA-170-E:11, I(b) through (e); 45 CFR 98.4

=== Nevada ===
D FACILITIES FOR CARE OF CHILDREN [Rev. 4/13/2026 12:52:57 PM] CHAPTER 432A - SERVICES AND FACILITIES FOR CARE OF CHILDREN [NAC-432A Revised Date: 9-25] GE
te facility: Disciplinary action. STANDARDS OF OPERATION General Requirements 432A.240 Change of ownership, construction or remodeling of facilities. 432A.
tion of signs and symptoms of illness and administration of first aid. 432A.310 Staff and residents of facility: Personal health. 432A.320 Orientation prog
Employees and director: Certification in administration of cardiopulmonary resuscitation. 432A.323 Employees and director: Required courses of training; m
condition. 432A.516 Audit of medical exemptions. Staffing Requirements; Number of Children 432A.520 General requirements; requirements for field trips. 432A.5205 Minimum staffing r
rement; duties. 432A.580 Written standards for operation of facility. 432A.585 Procedures for use and administration of medication. 432A.590 Admission of c
n. 432A.660 Guidelines and procedures for administration of program. 432A.665 Appointment of field administrator. 432A.670 Staff: Employment; internal poli
ker; contents of plan of treatment. 432A.730 Preparation and review of plan for treatment; dissemination of monthly reports on progress. 432A.735 Managemen
ions. 432A.740 Policy for rights of clients: Preparation; dissemination. 432A.745 Policy regarding transportation of client from his or her home to locatio
. 432A.958 Daily monetary penalty: Termination; duration. 432A.960 Daily monetary penalty: Required payment; effect of appeal; assessment of interest; reco
ager or relinquish authority: Action to enjoin operation and denial, suspension or revocation of license. 432A.970 Termination; action to enjoin facility f
the licensee who is responsible for the daily operation, administration and management of the facility. [Bd. for Child Care, Child Care Facilities Reg. 1.
to this chapter and who is responsible for the operation of a facility and adherence to the provisions of this chapter. [Bd. for Child Care, Child Care Fac
yee of the Division. 4. On confirmation of the operation of an unlicensed operator of a facility, the Division or the local licensing agency shall investig
r of the facility, force discontinuance of the operation of the facility or prosecute the violation. [Bd. for Child Care, Child Care Facilities Reg. 2.5-2.
re to satisfy the applicable requirements for the ratio of caregivers to children pursuant to this chapter or chapter 432A of NRS two or more times during
mpleted application for reissuance before the expiration of the license of the facility, in addition to any renewal or late fee set forth in NAC 432A.200 a
if mailed, not later than 45 days before the expiration of the license. The Division shall provide all forms and materials necessary for reissuance of a l
d or postmarked later than 30 days before the expiration of the license. 2. After receipt of an application for reissuance of a license and the receipt of
Inactive status does not continue beyond the expiration of the license. (Added to NAC by Bd. for Child Care, eff. 9-30-88) NAC 432A.230 License to operate
-80]—(NAC A by R203-03, 7-1-2004) STANDARDS OF OPERATION General Requirements NAC 432A.240 Change of ownership, construction or remodeling of facilities. (
director and staff; (b) A procedure for removing staff and children to a shelter within a building of the facility if the staff and children are instructed to do so
y 3 months. 4. Appropriate plans for removing the staff and children of a facility to a shelter within a building of the facility and for the evacuation of the facil
et that includes: (a) The first and last names of staff and children; and (b) The times of arrival and departure for staff and children. 6. To maintain his or her li
the licensee of a facility shall ensure that the ratio of caregivers to children in the vehicle satisfies the applicable requirement for the ratio of care
of a special needs facility shall ensure that the ratio of caregivers to children in the vehicle satisfies the applicable requirement for the ratio of care
32A.5205 . 5. If, during the time school is in operation, the licensee of a facility provides transportation for children of school age to and from a publi
c or private school, the ratio of staff to children in the vehicle must be not less than one member of the staff for every 15 children. 6. The licen
he amendment of this section by LCB File No. R203-97: 1. A person who was approved before April 1, 1998, as: (a) Director of a facility for which a directo
uch a crime is pending against the person. 2. The staff of a child care facility must be able to: (a) Work with children without recourse to physical punishment or ps
member of the staff who is responsible for the operation of the facility when the director is not present at the facility. 3. If the facility is in operati
the facility during at least half the hours of operation. (Added to NAC by Bd. for Child Care, eff. 6-5-84; A 11-19-85; 12-19-89; R112-06, 4-23-2009; A by
; and (b) Obtain the certification in the administration of cardiopulmonary resuscitation required pursuant to the provisions of NAC 432A.320 or section 3
y 1, 2004, the person is certified in the administration of cardiopulmonary resuscitation and that certification satisfies the requirements set forth in se
n 1 and has obtained certification in the administration of cardiopulmonary resuscitation as required pursuant to subsection 1 must be included in his pers
3. With regard to training concerning the administration of first aid and the recognition of signs and symptoms of illness that is required pursuant to the
tion of signs and symptoms of illness and administration of first aid. ( NRS 432A.077 ) 1. Whenever a child care facility is in operation, each caregiver o
of signs and symptoms of illness and the administration of first aid. 2. The training for the recognition of signs and symptoms of illness must include, w
loodborne pathogens. The training for the administration of first aid must include, without limitation, the administration of first aid to victims of fire,
of the job and being aware of any special considerations required by a caregiver who is pregnant; (g) The emergency health and safety procedures of the fa
blood or other bodily fluids; and (8) The administration of medication. 2. If required by the director or owner of the facility, a member of the staff of a
Employees and director: Certification in administration of cardiopulmonary resuscitation. ( NRS 432A.077 ) 1. Each person who is employed in or serves as
nd 432A.570 , obtain certification in the administration of cardiopulmonary resuscitation within 120 days after the person commences employment or his or h
(b) Maintain current certification in the administration of cardiopulmonary resuscitation. 2. A person is not required to obtain the certification required
facility, the person is certified in the administration of cardiopulmonary resuscitation and that certification satisfies the requirements set forth in th
d maintained current certification in the administration of cardiopulmonary resuscitation as required pursuant to this section must be included in his or h
head trauma; (2) Two or more hours in the administration of medication, which must include, without limitation, training in the prevention of and response
(1) One or more hours of training in the administration of cardiopulmonary resuscitation and any additional training required by the facility in which the
urposes of obtaining certification in the administration of cardiopulmonary resuscitation as required pursuant to NAC 432A.322 ; (2) Three or more hours of
(3) Two or more hours of training in the administration of first aid; (4) Two or more hours of training in the recognition of signs and symptoms of illnes
mployment. 4. The training concerning the administration of first aid and the recognition of signs and symptoms of illness that is required to be completed
y. With regard to training concerning the administration of first aid and the recognition of signs and symptoms of illness, the evidence listed in NAC 432A
more than 3 hours may be training in the administration of cardiopulmonary resuscitation. (b) If the facility does not provide care for ill children, the
more than 3 hours may be training in the administration of cardiopulmonary resuscitation. 2. The hours of training described in subsection 1 may consist o
iversity. 3. Any training relating to the administration of cardiopulmonary resuscitation must be taught by a certified instructor who meets the standards
hours of training received concerning the administration of first aid or concerning the recognition of signs and symptoms of illness more than once every 3
section 1 to each paid or volunteer member of its staff, to each parent of a child enrolled in the facility and to the Division. 4. The name, business address and business telephon
part of the written report. 2. If a member of the staff transports or accompanies a child for professional emergency care, he or she shall remain with the child until the parents a
2A.077 ) Except as otherwise provided in NAC 432A.585 : 1. Each prescribed medication must: (a) Be kept in the original container which must have a child-pro
to this subsection must be trained in the administration of medication by a health care professional or the parent of a child cared for in the facility and
caregiver is directly observing the child. 3. The staff of a facility may feed a child commercially prepared baby food directly from the jar in which it was packaged or from a sepa
ish. If the staff feeds the child from the jar, the staff shall discard the jar after it is used. (Added to NAC by Bd. for Child Care
proximity to a sink that is not used for the preparation of food; (c) Not be located in an area in which food is prepared; (d) Have a smooth, nonabsorbent
t in close proximity to an area used for the preparation of food; (4) Empty the potty-chair into a toilet immediately after each use; (5) Thoroughly clean
essary to meet the applicable requirement for the ratio of caregivers to children set forth in NAC 432A.5205 for napping or sleeping children must be on th
ng or sleeping child is in an area from which the staff can readily hear and see the child; and (n) Ensure that each napping or sleeping child is checked by a caregiver not less th
he amendment of this section by LCB File No. R203-97: 1. A person who was approved before April 1, 1998, as: (a) Director of a facility for which a directo
ities. ( NRS 432A.077 ) 1. During the hours of operation, each accommodation facility must have a person on duty who is designated as the person responsibl
e for the operation of the facility. 2. An accommodation facility may care for a child for not longer than 3 1/2 hours
ntly displayed and will assist each member of the staff in readily identifying each child who is in the group of children for whom the member of the staff of the facility will be r
o the director the responsibility for the administration of the institution and the employment of other members of the staff; and (f) Notify the Division o
g or have occurred in the organization or administration of the institution, including any changes in its owner or director. 3. A director of an institutio
nsee of a child care institution shall maintain a ratio of social workers to children that will fulfill the needs of the children, but there must be at lea
parated, the date and place of the divorce or separation; (f) The names, addresses and dates of birth of other children in the family; (g) The names and ad
he amendment of this section by LCB File No. R203-97: 1. A person who was approved before April 1, 1998, as: (a) Director of a facility for which a directo
of Health by R046-20, 12-29-2020, eff. 7-1-2021) Staffing Requirements; Number of Children NAC 432A.520 General requirements; requirements for field trips. ( NRS 432A.077 ) 1. A li
child and allow time for interaction between the staff and the children to promote the childrens social competence, emotional well-being and intellectual development. 2
ivers that are required to satisfy the applicable ratio of caregivers to children set forth in NAC 432A.5205 , one additional caregiver or an adult volunte
for NAC 432A.330) NAC 432A.5205 Minimum staffing ratios; staff required to remain awake during duty hours at night. ( NRS 432A.077 ) 1. Except as otherwis
pecial needs facility shall, between the hours of 6:30 a.m. and 9:00 p.m., abide by the following staffing levels in each classroom: Age of Child Required
Staff to Child Ratio Group Size Less than 9 months of age 1 caregiver for every 4 children 8 9 months of age or older bu
s facility which is operated between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 6:30 a.m. shall abide by the following staffing levels in each classroom: Age of Child Req
uired Staff to Child Ratio Group Size Less than 3 years of age 1 caregiver for every 6 children 12 3 years of age or older 1 c
r for every 10 children 20 3. Every member of the staff of a child care center, child care institution, accommodation facility, facility for special events, nursery for infants and
uirements of NAC 432A.250 if the requirements for ratios and groups described in subsections 1 and 2 are maintained within such classrooms. 5. If a license
1 and 2, the licensee shall abide by the required staff to child ratio and group size based on the age of the youngest child in the group. (Added to NAC by Bd. of H
group home shall abide by the following limits on staffing levels: Age of Child Required Staff to Child Ratio Less than 1 year of age 1 caregiver for every 2 children 1 year of ag
its on the number of children in the facility and staffing levels: Age of Child Required Staff to Child Ratio Group Size Less than 2 years of age 1 caregiver for every 3 children
ren, he or she may be included in calculating the ratio of staff to children. 3. If a facility that provides care for ill children contains children from m
using the average age to determine the applicable ratio of staff to children. (Added to NAC by Bd. for Child Care, eff. 3-11-92; A by Bd. of Health by R092
e children are: (a) Less than 3 years of age, the ratio of caregivers to children must be one caregiver for each child; (b) At least 3 years of age but les
s than 6 years of age, the ratio of caregivers to children must be one caregiver for every 4 children; and (c) Except as otherwise p
bsection 5, at least 6 years of age or older, the ratio of caregivers to children must be one caregiver for every 6 children. 5. When children cared for in
ess than 12 children engaged in the activity, the ratio of caregivers to children must be two caregivers for each group of that size; (b) There are at leas
ess than 20 children engaged in the activity, the ratio of caregivers to children must be three caregivers for each group of that size; and (c) There are 2
0 or more children engaged in the activity, the ratio of caregivers to children must be three caregivers plus one additional caregiver for every sixth ad
e a daily schedule of work for all members of the staff. 2. Not transfer a child from the facility to the center during any day that the child began at the facility. (Added to NAC
dition to satisfying the requirements of NRS 432A.1773 : 1. The director of a facility that provides care for ill children must be: (a) A physician as defined
east 21 years of age and certified in the administration of cardiopulmonary resuscitation. The certification in the administration of cardiopulmonary resus
ned and certified in first aid and in the administration of cardiopulmonary resuscitation. (c) Shall earn a total of 3 hours of training each year in the c
g employment. 2. The certification in the administration of cardiopulmonary resuscitation set forth in subsection 1 must be obtained before a person may be
shall: (a) Be on call when the facility is in operation; (b) Make quarterly inspections of the facility; (c) Act as a liaison to all appropriate health of
Assist in the development of standards for the operation of the facility. 3. If the director of the facility is a physician, the licensee is exempt from th
f. 3-11-92) NAC 432A.580 Written standards for operation of facility. ( NRS 432A.077 ) 1. The licensee of a facility that provides care for ill children sh
nd carry into effect written standards for the operation of the facility. 2. The standards must include: (a) An admission policy; (b) Procedures for the co
referrals; (k) Procedures for the use and administration of medication in accordance with NAC 432A.585 ; (l) Procedures for cleaning the facility; (m) Proc
2009) NAC 432A.585 Procedures for use and administration of medication. ( NRS 432A.077 ) Procedures for the use and administration of medication in a facil
of the child, the date and directions for administration; and (d) Refrigerated, if required. 3. All nonprescription medications must be: (a) Authorized by
of the child, the date and directions for administration; (c) Refrigerated, if required; and (d) Kept in a container which has a child-proof lid. 4. Except
e to children. 6. Medications that require refrigeration must be kept separate from food and inaccessible to children. 7. Unused medication must be returne
in the facility; and (b) A record of the administration of medication of each child. 9. A member of the staff shall note in the record of a child and the
perature. 10. Only persons trained in the administration of medication by a health care professional or a parent of a child cared for in a facility and aut
of the childs illness, including contagion and duration; (c) A recommendation for the number of evaluations of the child to be conducted by a member of th
acter or giardia; (b) That is accompanied by dehydration or loss of fluid; (c) That is accompanied by blood, mucus or loss of color in the stools; (d) That
h evaluation; (b) The temperature, pulse and respiration of the child; (c) The amount of food and fluid ingested by the child; (d) The color, consistency a
er constant visual observation by a member of the staff. (Added to NAC by Bd. for Child Care, eff. 3-11-92) NAC 432A.620 Accommodations for child to rest; supervision of resting ch
east 6 inches above the floor. 2. A member of the staff shall supervise a resting child. (Added to NAC by Bd. for Child Care, eff. 3-11-92) Outdoor Youth Programs NAC 432A.630 Purp
sion within 30 days after a change in the administration of the program or the purpose of the program; (e) Ensure that the program is adequately funded and
ary that identifies and describes all units of operation within the program. The chart and summary must define the lines of authority and the responsibilit
icable, documentation of the ownership and incorporation of the program. (Added to NAC by Bd. for Child Care, eff. 3-11-92) NAC 432A.645 Maintenance of acc
AC 432A.660 Guidelines and procedures for administration of program. ( NRS 432A.077 ) A provider shall prepare guidelines and procedures for administration
: (a) Meet the specific needs of the clients at a ratio of staff to clients which is not less than that required by NRS 432A.480 . (b) Perform supervisory,
, including training in such areas as the administration of first aid and the certification in the administration of cardiopulmonary resuscitation required
work performance. (g) A copy of his or her registration as an alien, if applicable. (h) A copy of the rules of conduct for employees which has been signed
ll be providing the treatment; (b) The date and duration of the treatment; (c) A description of the treatment; (d) The signature and title of the person pr
. for Child Care, eff. 3-11-92) NAC 432A.730 Preparation and review of plan for treatment; dissemination of monthly reports on progress. ( NRS 432A.077 , 4
) NAC 432A.740 Policy for rights of clients: Preparation; dissemination. ( NRS 432A.077 ) 1. A provider shall prepare a written policy for the rights of it
hat the equipment in each vehicle for the administration of first aid must comply with the recommendations of the American Red Cross. 2. The staff and clie
iciency creates a condition or incident in the operation or maintenance of a facility that directly or indirectly threatens the health, safety, rights, sec
C 432A.958 Daily monetary penalty: Termination; duration. ( NRS 432A.077 , 432A.188 ) 1. The Division must terminate the daily accrual of a monetary penalt
ager or relinquish authority: Action to enjoin operation and denial, suspension or revocation of license. ( NRS 432A.077 , 432A.188 ) If a facility does no

=== Florida ===
l serve as notification .... 1. November 27, 2012 8:30 a.m. - 10:30 a.m.; 2. November 28, .... 1. Early Learning Coalition of Miami-Dade/Monroe, 2555 Ponc
alth’s authority to license and inspect food preparation and food service in child care facilities. The legislation effectively requires .... 11708402 7/20
(in response .... Workshop 1: February 29, 2012, 11:00 a.m. – 1:00 p.m.; Workshop .... Workshop 1: Roberts Bldg., 5920 Arlington Expressway, Jacksonville,
hapter 65C-22, F.A.C. Monday, December 8th, 2008, 10:00 A.M. (Ft. Lauderdale) Tuesday, .... Ft. Lauderdale: Department of Children and Family Services, ...
are necessary for the uniform and proper administration and enforcement .... 530801 7/28/2006 Vol. 32/30 --> Development 65C-22.001 ...... The proposed am
are necessary for the uniform and proper administration and enforcement .... 491225 7/14/2006 Vol. 32/28 --> Development 65C-22.001 ...... To discuss prop

=== Virginia ===
ing procedures Part II . Organization and Administration Read all Section 50 Governing board Section 60 Finances Section 70 Relationship to licensing autho
ents Section 90 Composition and qualifications of staff Section 100 Ratio of child care staff to children Section 110 Personnel policies Part IV . Buildings, Grounds, and Equipment
margin-left:1em;}a, a:link{color:#1a73ae;text-decoration:none;}'); printWindow.document.write('b{margin:0;padding:0;border:0;font-size:100%;vertical-align:

=== Ohio ===
o Administrative Code rule number corresponds to "5101:2-12-13". Disclaimer Contact About --> --> -->

=== Texas ===
padding: 10px 20px; border-radius: 5px; text-decoration: none; font-weight: bold; } .button-link:hover { background-color: #A32C1D; } .footer { padding: 1

=== Washington ===
egislature House of Representatives House Administration Office of Program Research Senate Senate Committee Services Schedules Leadership Administration Co

=== Oregon ===
Governor in accordance with the Emergency Conflagration Act, ORS 476.510 through 476.610. (4) To approve an exception under section (3) a county must also
hs from the date of the Governor’s emergency declaration. The county may grant two additional 12-month extensions upon a demonstration by the applicant tha

=== Minnesota ===
