=== OH admin 4901:2-1
=== OH dealer 4517 bond
Motor Vehicle Dealers, Auction Owners, and Salespersons
Motor vehicle dealer, auction owner and salesperson definitions.
(C) "New motor vehicle" means a motor vehicle, the legal title to which has never been transferred by a manufacturer, remanufacturer, distributor, or dealer to an ultimate purchaser.
(D) "Ultimate purchaser" means, with respect to any new motor vehicle, the first person, other than a dealer purchasing in the capacity of a dealer, who in good faith purchases such new motor vehicle for purposes other than resale.
(J) "Dealer" or "motor vehicle dealer" means any new motor vehicle dealer, any motor vehicle leasing dealer, any adaptive mobility dealer, and any used motor vehicle dealer.
(K) "New motor vehicle dealer" means any person engaged in the business of selling at retail, displaying, offering for sale, or dealing in new motor vehicles pursuant to a contract or agreement entered into with the manufacturer, remanufacturer, or distributor of the motor vehicles.
(N) "Salesperson" means any person employed by a dealer to sell, display, and offer for sale, or deal in motor vehicles for a commission, compensation, or other valuable consideration, but does not mean any public officer performing official duties.
(O) "Casual sale" means any transfer of a motor vehicle by a person other than a new motor vehicle dealer, used motor vehicle dealer, adaptive mobility dealer, motor vehicle salvage dealer, as defined in division (A) of section
of the Revised Code, salesperson, motor vehicle auction owner, manufacturer, or distributor acting in the capacity of a dealer, salesperson, auction owner, manufacturer, or distributor, to a person who purchases the motor vehicle for use as a consumer.
(P) "Motor vehicle auction owner" means any person who is engaged wholly or in part in the business of auctioning motor vehicles, but does not mean a construction equipment auctioneer or a construction equipment auction licensee.
(S) "Distributor" means any person authorized by a motor vehicle manufacturer to distribute new motor vehicles to licensed new motor vehicle dealers, but does not mean a person who only assembles or installs a body, special equipment unit, finishing trim, or accessories on a motor vehicle chassis supplied by a manufacturer or distributor.
(T) "Flea market" means a market place, other than a dealer's location licensed under this chapter, where a space or location is provided for a fee or compensation to a seller to exhibit and offer for sale or trade, motor vehicles to the general public.
(U) "Franchise" means any written agreement, contract, or understanding between any motor vehicle manufacturer or remanufacturer engaged in commerce and any new motor vehicle dealer that purports to fix the legal rights and liabilities of the parties to such agreement, contract, or understanding.
(X) "Dealer organization" means a state or local trade association the membership of which is comprised predominantly of new motor vehicle dealers.
(Y) "Factory representative" means a representative employed by a manufacturer, remanufacturer, or by a factory branch primarily for the purpose of promoting the sale of its motor vehicles, parts, or accessories to dealers or for supervising or contacting its dealers or prospective dealers.
(CC) "Relevant market area" means any area within a radius of ten miles from the site of a potential new dealership, except that for manufactured home or recreational vehicle dealerships the radius shall be twenty-five miles. The ten-mile radius shall be measured from the dealer's established place of business that is used exclusively for the purpose of selling, displaying, offering for sale, or dealing in motor vehicles.
(EE) "Motor vehicle wholesaler" means any person licensed as a dealer under the laws of another state and engaged in the business of selling, displaying, or offering for sale used motor vehicles, at wholesale, but does not mean any motor vehicle dealer as defined in this section.
(KK) "Construction equipment auctioneer" means a person who holds both a valid auction firm license issued under Chapter 4707. of the Revised Code and a valid construction equipment auction license issued under this chapter.
(4) The proximity of other motor vehicle dealers of the same line-make;
(1) It is either owned, leased, or rented by the motor vehicle dealer.
(OO) "Adaptive mobility dealer" means any person engaged in the business of all of the following:
(1) Enforcing the comprehensive and uniform framework for licensing and regulating manufacturers, distributors, wholesalers, and dealers of motor vehicles;
(4) Maintaining full and fair competition among intra- brand and inter-brand dealers;
(5) Maintaining strong and sound dealerships in order to provide continuing and necessary reliable services to the citizens of this state and to provide stable employment to the citizens of this state.
License required to engage in motor vehicle or manufactured home business - remanufacturers.
(1) Engage in the business of displaying or selling at retail new motor vehicles or assume to engage in that business, unless the person is licensed as a new motor vehicle dealer under sections
of the Revised Code, or is a salesperson employed by a licensed new motor vehicle dealer;
(2) Engage in the business of offering for sale, displaying for sale, or selling at retail or wholesale used motor vehicles or assume to engage in that business, unless the person is licensed as a new motor vehicle dealer, used motor vehicle dealer, or motor vehicle leasing dealer under sections
of the Revised Code, is a salesperson employed by a licensed used motor vehicle dealer or licensed new motor vehicle dealer, or the person holds a construction equipment auction license issued under section
of the Revised Code, unless the person is licensed as a motor vehicle leasing dealer under sections
(4) Engage in the business of motor vehicle auctioning or assume to engage in that business, unless the person is licensed as a motor vehicle auction owner under sections
of the Revised Code and the person uses an auctioneer who is licensed under Chapter 4707. of the Revised Code to conduct the motor vehicle auctions or the person holds a construction equipment auction license issued under section
(5) Engage in the business of distributing motor vehicles or assume to engage in that business, unless the person is licensed as a distributor under sections
(6) Make more than five casual sales of motor vehicles in a twelve-month period, commencing with the day of the month in which the first such sale is made, nor provide a location or space for the sale of motor vehicles at a flea market, without obtaining a license as a dealer under sections
of the Revised Code, provided that nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit the disposition without a license of a motor vehicle originally acquired and held for purposes other than sale, rental, or lease to an employee, retiree, officer, or director of the person making the disposition, to a corporation affiliated with the person making the disposition, or to a person licensed under sections
(7) Engage in the business of auctioning both large construction or transportation equipment and also motor vehicles incident thereto, unless the person is a construction equipment auctioneer or the person is licensed as a motor vehicle auction owner and the person uses an auctioneer who is licensed under Chapter 4707. of the Revised Code to conduct the auction;
(8) Engage in the business of displaying or selling at retail adaptive mobility vehicles or assume to engage in that business, unless the person is licensed as an adaptive mobility dealer under sections
of the Revised Code, or is a salesperson employed by a licensed adaptive mobility dealer, except that any licensed motor vehicle dealer may sell at retail a used adaptive mobility vehicle.
(B) Nothing in this section shall be construed to require an auctioneer licensed under sections
of the Revised Code to obtain a motor vehicle auction owner's license under sections
of the Revised Code when engaged in auctioning for a licensed motor vehicle auction owner.
The establishment of a construction equipment auction license by Am. Sub. H.B. 114 of the 129th general assembly shall not in any way modify, limit, or restrict in any manner the conduct of auctions by persons licensed under Chapter 4707. of the Revised Code who are acting in compliance with that chapter.
of the Revised Code is dissolved by death, the surviving partners may operate under the license for a period of sixty days, and the heirs or representatives of deceased persons and receivers or trustees in bankruptcy appointed by any competent authority may operate under the license of the person succeeded in possession by that heir, representative, receiver, or trustee in bankruptcy.
(F) No adaptive mobility dealer shall do any of the following:
(1) Represent that the dealer is engaged in the business of selling new motor vehicles;
(2) Sell, transfer, or offer to sell or transfer a new motor vehicle unless that new motor vehicle is purchased through a licensed new motor vehicle dealer;
(D) The registrar shall not authorize a person licensed under section
(b) A new motor vehicle dealer does not violate division (B)(1) of this section if a customer of the new motor vehicle dealer executes purchase or lease documentation at a location other than the new motor vehicle dealer's established place of business.
(c) A commercial transaction involving the sale or lease by a new motor vehicle dealer of a new or used heavy duty vehicle, as defined in 49 C.F.R. 523.6, is deemed to have taken place at the new motor vehicle dealer's established place of business if the sale or lease is negotiated and the documents are executed at the customer's business location.
(2) A licensed new motor vehicle dealer may operate a remote service facility with the consent of the manufacturer and only to perform repairs, warranty work, recall work, and maintenance on motor vehicles as part of the dealer's franchised and licensed new motor vehicle dealership. The remote service facility shall be included on the new motor vehicle dealer's license and be deemed to be part of the dealer's licensed location.
(C) No used motor vehicle dealer shall sell, display, offer for sale, or deal in motor vehicles at any place except an established place of business that is used exclusively for the purpose of selling, displaying, offering for sale, or dealing in motor vehicles.
A used motor vehicle dealer does not violate division (C) of this section if a customer of the used motor vehicle dealer executes purchase or lease documentation at a location other than the used motor vehicle dealer's established place of business.
(D) No motor vehicle leasing dealer shall make a motor vehicle available for use by another, in the manner described in division (M) of section
of the Revised Code, at any place except an established place of business that is used for leasing motor vehicles; except that a motor vehicle leasing dealer who is also a new motor vehicle dealer or used motor vehicle dealer may lease motor vehicles at the same place of business at which the dealer sells, offers for sale, or deals in new or used motor vehicles.
(E) No motor vehicle leasing dealer or motor vehicle renting dealer shall sell a motor vehicle within ninety days after a certificate of title to the motor vehicle is issued to the dealer, except as follows:
(2) A motor vehicle leasing dealer may sell a motor vehicle to another motor vehicle leasing dealer at the end of a sublease pursuant to that sublease.
(3) A motor vehicle leasing dealer may sell a motor vehicle previously titled to an ultimate purchaser to another licensed motor vehicle dealer.
(4) A motor vehicle leasing dealer may sell a motor vehicle when the motor vehicle has been titled in the dealer's name or in the name of an entity affiliated with the dealer in this state or another state for a cumulative period of ninety days.
(F) No distributor shall distribute new motor vehicles to new motor vehicle dealers at any place except an established place of business that is used exclusively for the purpose of distributing new motor vehicles to new motor vehicle dealers; except that a distributor who is also a new motor vehicle dealer may distribute new motor vehicles at the same place of business at which the distributor sells, displays, offers for sale, or deals in new motor vehicles.
An adaptive mobility dealer does not violate division (H) of this section if a customer of the adaptive mobility dealer executes purchase or lease documentation at a location other than the adaptive mobility dealer's established place of business.
(I) Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit persons licensed under this chapter from making sales calls.
(1) "Motor vehicle leasing dealer" has the same meaning as in section
(2) "Motor vehicle renting dealer" has the same meaning as in section
Application for new motor vehicle dealer's license.
(F) A statement showing whether the applicant has previously applied for a motor vehicle dealer's license, motor vehicle leasing dealer's license, distributor's license, or motor vehicle auction owner's license and the result of the application, and whether the applicant has ever been the holder of any such license that was revoked or suspended;
(G) If the applicant is a corporation or partnership, a statement showing whether any partner, employee, officer, or director has been refused a motor vehicle dealer's license, motor vehicle leasing dealer's license, distributor's license, or motor vehicle auction owner's license or has been the holder of any such license that was revoked or suspended;
Application for adaptive mobility dealer's license.
(A) Each person applying for an adaptive mobility dealer's license shall biennially complete and deliver to the registrar of motor vehicles, before the first day of April, a separate license application for each county in which the business of dealing in adaptive mobility vehicles is to be conducted. The registrar shall prescribe the form of the application, which shall include all of the following:
(6) A statement showing whether the applicant has previously applied for a motor vehicle dealer's license, motor vehicle leasing dealer's license, distributor's license, motor vehicle auction owner's license, or motor vehicle salesperson's license, and the result of the application, and whether the applicant has ever been the holder of any such license that was revoked or suspended;
(7) If the applicant is a corporation or partnership, a statement showing whether any partner, employee, officer, or director has been denied a motor vehicle dealer's license, motor vehicle leasing dealer's license, distributor's license, motor vehicle auction owner's license, or motor vehicle salesperson's license, or has been the holder of any such license that was revoked or suspended;
(9) A statement acknowledging that any new motor vehicle purchased by an adaptive mobility dealer shall be purchased through a new motor vehicle dealer.
Application for used motor vehicle dealer's license; mandatory training.
(B)(1) Except as provided in divisions (B)(2) and (3) of this section, an owner, officer, partner, or director of a business entity applying for a used motor vehicle dealer license ninety days or more after September 4, 2012, shall, within six months immediately preceding the date of applying for the license, successfully complete a used motor vehicle dealer training course that complies with the rules of the motor vehicle dealers board adopted under division (C) of this section.
(2) No person applying for a used motor vehicle dealer's license shall be required to have an owner, officer, partner, or director of the business entity complete a used motor vehicle dealer training course if any owner, officer, partner, or director of the business entity held a used or new motor vehicle dealer's license within the two-year period immediately preceding the date of application and the previously held license was not revoked or suspended.
(3) No person applying for a used motor vehicle dealer's license shall be required to have an owner, officer, partner, or director of the related business entity complete a used motor vehicle dealer training course if the person holds a salvage motor vehicle auction license pursuant to Chapter 4738. of the Revised Code or a motor vehicle auction owner license pursuant to Chapter 4517. of the Revised Code.
(C)(1) In accordance with Chapter 119. of the Revised Code, the motor vehicle dealers board shall adopt rules governing used motor vehicle dealer training courses. The rules shall do all of the following:
of the Revised Code, or a relevant professional or trade association that has been in existence for more than five years and has a majority of members who are motor vehicle dealers licensed in this state;
(d) Prescribe the form for the certificate of completion, which shall require the course provider to attest that the person named on the certificate successfully completed at least six hours of used motor vehicle dealer training;
(3) The registrar shall not issue a used motor vehicle dealer license to any person subject to division (B)(1) of this section unless an owner, officer, partner, or director of a business entity applying for the used motor vehicle dealer license has successfully completed a used motor vehicle dealer training course that complies with the requirements of this division.
(D)(1) Any person offering used motor vehicle dealer training courses shall do all of the following:
(a) Conform the course to rules of the motor vehicle dealers board;
(E) Nothing in this section shall affect or apply to new motor vehicle dealer licensing.
Application for motor vehicle leasing dealer's license.
Each person applying for a motor vehicle leasing dealer's license shall biennially, before the first day of April, make out and deliver to the registrar of motor vehicles, upon a blank to be furnished by the registrar for that purpose, a separate application for license for each county in which the business of leasing motor vehicles, as described in division (M) of section
Application for motor vehicle auction owner's license - records to be open for inspection.
The business records, relating to the auctioning of motor vehicles, of a licensed motor vehicle auction owner shall be open for reasonable inspection by the registrar or the registrar's authorized agent.
Each person applying for a distributor's license shall biennially, before the first day of April, make out and deliver to the registrar of motor vehicles, upon a blank to be furnished by the registrar for that purpose, a separate application for license for each place of business maintained. The application shall be in the form prescribed by the registrar, shall be signed and sworn to by the applicant, and, in addition to such other information as is required by the registrar, shall include:
On and after the effective date of this amendment, the registrar shall not require a license to practice as a motor vehicle salesperson. Any motor vehicle salesperson license that was issued prior to the effective date of this amendment remains valid only until the expiration date of the license. The license shall not be renewed.
The fee for a motor vehicle dealer's license and a motor vehicle leasing dealer's license shall be fifty dollars. In addition to the license fee, the registrar shall collect from each applicant for an initial motor vehicle dealer's license and motor vehicle leasing dealer's license a separate fee in an amount equal to the last assessment required by section
of the Revised Code for all motor vehicle dealers and motor vehicle leasing dealers. The registrar shall deposit the separate fee into the state treasury to the credit of the title defect recision fund created in section
of the Revised Code. The fee for a motor vehicle auction owner's license shall be one hundred dollars for each location. The fee for a distributor's license shall be one hundred dollars for each distributorship. In all cases, the fee shall accompany the application for license.
The registrar may require each applicant for a license issued under this chapter to pay an additional fee, which shall be used by the registrar to pay the costs of obtaining a record of any arrests and convictions of the applicant from the Ohio bureau of identification and investigation. The amount of the fee shall be equal to that paid by the registrar to obtain such record.
If a motor vehicle dealer or a motor vehicle leasing dealer has more than one place of business in the county, the dealer shall make application, in such form as the registrar prescribes, for a certified copy of the license issued to the dealer for each place of business operated. In the event of the loss, mutilation, or destruction of a license issued under sections
of the Revised Code, any licensee may make application to the registrar, in such form as the registrar prescribes, for a duplicate copy thereof. The fee for a certified or duplicate copy of a motor vehicle dealer's, motor vehicle leasing dealer's, distributor's, or auction owner's license, is two dollars. All fees for such copies shall accompany the applications.
No license issued to a motor vehicle dealer, motor vehicle leasing dealer, or auction owner under sections
Each motor vehicle dealer, motor vehicle leasing dealer, distributor, and auction owner shall keep the dealer's or auction owner's license or a certified copy thereof posted in a conspicuous place in each place of business.
The notice of refusal to grant a license shall disclose the reason for refusal.
License fees credited to pubilc safety - highway purposes fund.
Denial of license as motor vehicle dealer, motor vehicle leasing dealer, manufactured home broker, or motor vehicle auction owner.
(A) The registrar of motor vehicles shall deny the application of any person for a license as a motor vehicle dealer, motor vehicle leasing dealer, or motor vehicle auction owner and refuse to issue the license if the registrar finds that the applicant:
of the Revised Code, upon a motor vehicle chassis supplied by a manufacturer or distributor shall not be denied a license pursuant to division (A)(4) of this section;
(8) Is of insufficient responsibility to ensure the prompt payment of any final judgments that might reasonably be entered against the applicant because of the transaction of business as a motor vehicle dealer, motor vehicle leasing dealer, or motor vehicle auction owner during the period of the license applied for, or has failed to satisfy any such judgment;
(10) Has, less than twelve months prior to making application, been denied a motor vehicle dealer's, motor vehicle leasing dealer's, or motor vehicle auction owner's license, or has any such license revoked;
(11) Is a manufacturer, or a parent company, subsidiary, or affiliated entity of a manufacturer, applying for a license to sell or lease new or used motor vehicles at retail. Division (A)(11) of this section shall not serve as a basis for the termination, revocation, or nonrenewal of a license granted prior to September 4, 2014. Nothing in division (A)(11) of this section shall prohibit a manufacturer from doing either of the following:
(a) Owning, operating, or controlling not more than three licensed motor vehicle dealerships if, as of January 1, 2014, the manufacturer was selling or otherwise distributing its motor vehicles at an established place of business in this state. Such ownership, operation, or control may continue unless the manufacturer's motor vehicle operations are sold or acquired or the manufacturer produces any motor vehicles other than all-electric motor vehicles.
(C) Notwithstanding division (A)(4) of this section, the registrar shall not deny the application of any person and refuse to issue a license if the registrar finds that the applicant is engaged or will engage in the business of selling at retail any new motor vehicles and demonstrates all of the following in the form prescribed by the registrar:
(1) That the applicant has posted a bond, surety, or certificate of deposit with the registrar in an amount not less than one hundred thousand dollars for the protection and benefit of the applicant's customers except that a new motor vehicle dealer who is not exclusively engaged in the business of selling remanufactured vehicles shall not be required to post the bond, surety, or certificate of deposit otherwise required by division (C)(1) of this section;
The registrar of motor vehicles shall deny the application of any person for a license as a distributor and refuse to issue the license if the registrar finds that the applicant:
(H) Is of insufficient responsibility to ensure the prompt payment of any financial judgment that might reasonably be entered against the applicant because of the transaction of business as a distributor during the period of the license applied for, or has failed to satisfy any such judgment;
(J) Has, less than twelve months prior to making application, been denied a distributor's, motor vehicle dealer's, motor vehicle leasing dealer's, or motor vehicle auction owner's license, or had any such license revoked.
No person shall act as salesperson for more than one licensed motor vehicle dealer at the same time, except that a salesperson may act as a salesperson at any licensed dealership owned or operated by the same company, regardless of the county in which the dealership's facility is located.
Appeal of denial of license to motor vehicle dealers board.
Any person who has been denied a license under section
of the Revised Code may appeal from the action of the registrar of motor vehicles to the motor vehicle dealers board in the manner provided in section
Eligibility for construction equipment auction license.
A person is eligible for a construction equipment auction license under section
Application for construction equipment auction license; expiration; form of license.
(A) Each person applying for a construction equipment auction license shall make out and deliver an application to the registrar of motor vehicles, upon a form furnished by the registrar for that purpose. The application shall be signed and sworn to by the applicant and shall include such information as the registrar may require by rule.
(B) The registrar shall issue a construction equipment auction license to any applicant who meets the requirements of this section and section
(C) A construction equipment auction license shall expire five years after the date of issuance unless sooner revoked. The fee for a construction equipment auction license shall be seven thousand five hundred dollars and shall accompany the application. The registrar shall deposit all fees received under this section into the state treasury to the credit of the public safety - highway purposes fund established by section
(D) In accordance with Chapter 119. of the Revised Code, the registrar shall adopt rules necessary for the regulation of construction equipment auction sales and licensees, which rules shall be specific to construction equipment auction sales and licensees, separate and distinct from any other rules adopted under this chapter.
(E) At the time the registrar grants the application of any person for a construction equipment auction license, the registrar shall issue to the person a license, which shall include the name and post-office address of the person licensed.
(F) The business records of a construction equipment auction licensee shall be open for reasonable inspection by the registrar or the registrar's authorized agent.
(G) Each construction equipment auction licensee shall keep the license, or a certified copy of the license, posted in a conspicuous place in each place of its business.
Denial or revocation of construction equipment auction license.
(A) The registrar of motor vehicles shall, except as provided in division (B) of this section, deny the application of any person for a construction equipment auction license or may revoke a license previously issued if the registrar finds that the person:
(1) Is not eligible for the license pursuant to section
(6) Is of insufficient responsibility to ensure the prompt payment of any final judgments that might reasonably be entered against the applicant because of the transaction of the construction equipment auction business during the period of the license applied for, or has failed to satisfy any such judgment.
(B) The registrar shall not refuse to issue a license to an applicant because of a conviction of or plea of guilty to an offense unless the refusal is in accordance with section
(C) Any person who has been denied a license or has had a license revoked under this section may appeal from the action of the registrar to the motor vehicle dealers board in the manner provided in section
(A) A construction equipment auction licensee may sell at auction large construction or transportation equipment and shall do all of the following:
(C) No construction equipment auction licensee shall do any of the following:
(2) Hold any motor vehicle dealer licenses issued by this state at the same time as holding a construction equipment auction license, and the construction equipment auction license shall be separate and distinct from any other license issued under this chapter;
(3) Sell at auction a motor vehicle having a gross vehicle weight rating of ten thousand pounds or less unless the owner of such motor vehicle also sells large construction or transportation equipment through the construction equipment auction licensee.
(A) No motor vehicle dealer licensed under Chapter 4517. of the Revised Code shall do any of the following:
(1) Directly or indirectly, solicit the sale of a motor vehicle through a pecuniarily interested person other than a salesperson in the employ of the licensed dealer;
(2) Pay any commission or compensation in any form to any person in connection with the sale of a motor vehicle unless the person is a salesperson in the employ of the dealer;
(3) Knowingly engage in any wholesale motor vehicle transaction with any person required to be licensed pursuant to Chapter 4517. of the Revised Code, if the person is not licensed pursuant to that chapter, if the person's license to operate as a dealer has been suspended or revoked, or if the person's application for a license to operate as a dealer has been denied.
(A) No motor vehicle auction owner licensed under Chapter 4517. of the Revised Code shall:
(1) Engage in the sale of motor vehicles at retail from the same licensed location;
(a) A motor vehicle dealer licensed in this state or any other jurisdiction, or any other person licensed pursuant to Chapter 4517. of the Revised Code or a substantially similar statute of any other jurisdiction;
(b) A person who purchases a motor vehicle from a licensed motor vehicle dealer at an auction of motor vehicles conducted at the licensed motor vehicle dealer's place of business in accordance with division (B) of this section;
of the Revised Code, at an auction conducted at the established place of business of a licensed motor vehicle auction owner where only classic motor vehicles are being auctioned.
(4) Knowingly permit the sale of a motor vehicle by any person who is not licensed pursuant to Chapter 4517. of the Revised Code, except by insurers and subrogees selling only those motor vehicles that have come into their possession through the operation of the terms of an insurance contract;
(8) Knowingly accept a motor vehicle for sale or possible sale by a dealer whose license has been suspended or revoked, during the period of suspension or revocation, or by a person whose application for a license to operate as a dealer has been denied, after notification by the registrar, in accordance with division (G) of this section, of the suspension or revocation of the license, or denial of an application for a license.
(1) "General market area" means the contiguous geographical area established by a motor vehicle show sponsor that is based upon the size of the show and that does not unreasonably exclude any licensed new motor vehicle dealer.
(5) "Motor vehicle show" means a display of new motor vehicles that lasts not more than ten days by more than one new motor vehicle dealer dealing in competitive types of motor vehicles and that is authorized by the registrar of motor vehicles primarily to allow the general public an opportunity to compare and inspect a variety of makes and models simultaneously, test drive vehicles, and gain an understanding of new technology and available features.
(B) Any group of licensed new motor vehicle dealers may display motor vehicles at a motor vehicle show within the general market area assigned by the sponsor if, not less than thirty days before the planned opening date of the motor vehicle show, the sponsor executes and files with the registrar an affidavit, in a form prescribed by the registrar, that certifies that all requirements of this section have been or will be met, as applicable.
(D) Any sponsor of a motor vehicle show or the sponsor's representative shall offer by mail an invitation to all new motor vehicle dealers dealing in competitive types of motor vehicles in the general market area to participate and display motor vehicles in the show. The sponsor or representative may offer a similar invitation to manufacturers or distributors. A copy of each invitation shall be retained by the sponsor for one year after the show.
(H) No motor vehicle dealer, motor vehicle leasing dealer, motor vehicle auction owner, or distributor licensed under sections
of the Revised Code shall display a motor vehicle at any place except the dealer's, owner's, or distributor's licensed location, unless the dealer, owner, or distributor first obtains permission from the registrar and complies with the applicable rules of the motor vehicle dealers board or the display is authorized pursuant to section
(3) The licensed new motor vehicle dealers involved have complied with the applicable requirements of this section.
(a) That an invitation was sent to all new motor vehicle dealers within the county where the fair is held;
(c) That only one new motor vehicle dealer accepted the invitation.
Display of new motor vehicles at location other than dealership.
of the Revised Code to the contrary and except as provided in division (B)(2) of this section, a licensed new motor vehicle dealer that satisfies the requirements of this section may display new motor vehicles at a location other than the dealer's established place of business to provide the general public an opportunity to review and inspect the dealer's product line, including safety features and new technology.
(2) No licensed motor vehicle dealer shall display new motor vehicles at the annual fair sponsored by a county or agricultural society unless the sponsor complies with the provisions of division (B) of section
(C) For a display under this section by a licensed new motor vehicle dealer within the area of responsibility assigned to that dealer by a manufacturer, the dealer shall satisfy the following conditions:
(2) The dealer displays not more than six vehicles that may be available for test drive during the display.
(3) The dealer files both of the following with the registrar of motor vehicles within three business days prior to the display and in a form prescribed by the registrar:
(a) Evidence of the area of responsibility assigned to the dealer by the manufacturer;
(i) That the location of the display is within the area of responsibility assigned to the dealer by a manufacturer;
(iv) That to the best of the dealer's knowledge, no other dealer will display a vehicle at the location during the dates of the display;
(D) For a display under this section by a new motor vehicle dealer outside the area of responsibility assigned to that dealer by a manufacturer, the dealer shall satisfy the following conditions:
(2) The dealer displays not more than six vehicles.
(3) The dealer files an affidavit with the registrar in a form prescribed by the registrar and within three business days prior to the display that affirms all of the following:
(a) That the location of the display is not within the area of responsibility assigned to the dealer by a manufacturer;
(b) That the dealer has provided every dealer selling the same line-make within the area of responsibility where the display will occur with notice of the dealer's intent to display and each of those dealers has agreed to allow the display to occur;
(f) That to the best of the dealer's knowledge, no other dealer will display a vehicle at the location during the dates of the display;
(g) That the dealer has not displayed a vehicle pursuant to division (D) of this section for more than six days during the calendar year and that the current display will not result in the dealer exceeding the six-day maximum;
(E) No licensed new motor vehicle dealer shall display for more than six days per calendar year outside the area of responsibility assigned to that dealer by a manufacturer.
(F)(1) No licensed new motor vehicle dealer shall display outside the area of responsibility assigned to that dealer by a manufacturer if a dealer handling the same line-make within the area of responsibility objects to the display.
(2) A licensed motor vehicle dealer who displays outside the area of responsibility assigned to that dealer by a manufacturer bears the burden of proving that no dealer of the same line-make within the area objected to the display.
(3) A licensed motor vehicle dealer who files an affidavit under division (D) of this section shall maintain any documentation that is evidence of consent to display in that area for one year following the last day of the display.
(G) A licensed new motor vehicle dealer who files an affidavit under division (C) or (D) of this section shall maintain a copy of that affidavit for one year following the last day of the display.
(A) Any licensed motor vehicle dealer, motor vehicle leasing dealer, or distributor shall notify the registrar of motor vehicles concerning any change in status as a dealer, motor vehicle leasing dealer, or distributor during the period for which the dealer, or distributor is licensed, if the change of status concerns any of the following:
(3) In the case of a motor vehicle dealer, any contract or agreement with any manufacturer or distributor; and in the case of a distributor, any contract or agreement with any manufacturer.
of the Revised Code if the change had occurred prior to the licensee's application for license.
The motor vehicle dealers board may adopt a rule exempting from the notification requirement of division (A)(1) of this section any dealer if stock in the dealer or its parent company is publicly traded and if there are public records with state or federal agencies that provide the information required by division (A)(1) of this section.
(C) This section does not apply to a licensed adaptive mobility dealer and a licensed remanufacturer owned or operated by the same company engaging in business at the same location.
(A) Every dealer shall maintain a mileage disclosure statement from the previous owner of each motor vehicle the dealer sells, purchases, or receives as a trade on another motor vehicle. The mileage disclosure statement shall be in such form and include such information as the motor vehicle dealers board requires by rule.
(B) A motor vehicle dealer may contract for and receive a documentary service charge for a retail or wholesale sale or lease of a motor vehicle. A documentary service charge shall be specified in writing without itemization of the individual services provided. A documentary service charge shall be not more than the lesser of the following:
(5) The adjusted documentary service charge determined under division (C) of this section applies only with respect to the sale or lease of a motor vehicle by a motor vehicle dealer, and only if the adjusted documentary service charge does not exceed the amount described in division (B)(2) of this section.
Dealer liability for third-party motor vehicle history reports.
(1) "Motor vehicle dealer" includes any owner, partner, shareholder, officer, member, trustee, employee, or agent of the motor vehicle dealership.
(2) "Third-party motor vehicle history report" means any formal or informal report prepared by a person other than a motor vehicle dealer that relates to one or more of the following:
(B) When a motor vehicle dealer provides or otherwise makes available to a motor vehicle purchaser, lessee, or any other person a third-party motor vehicle history report in conjunction with the actual or potential sale or lease of a motor vehicle, the motor vehicle dealer is not liable for the accuracy of information that was provided by another entity.
The motor vehicle dealers board shall consist of eleven members. The registrar of motor vehicles or the registrar's designee shall be a member of the board, and the other ten members shall be appointed by the governor with the advice and consent of the senate. Not more than five of the ten members other than the registrar shall be of any one political party, and of the ten:
The motor vehicle dealers board shall be a part of the department of public safety for administrative purposes in the following respects:
of the Revised Code, the motor vehicle dealers board may make such reasonable rules as are necessary to carry out and effect its duties under this chapter, including such rules as are necessary relating to the time, place, and manner of conducting hearings on the issuance, suspension, or revocation of licenses, and on protests filed under sections
The board may make rules governing its actions relative to the suspension and revocation of dealers', motor vehicle leasing dealers', distributors', auction owners' and construction equipment auction licenses, and may, upon its own motion, and shall, upon the verified complaint in writing of any person, investigate the conduct of any licensee under sections
of the Revised Code. The board shall suspend or revoke or notify the registrar to refuse to renew any dealer's, motor vehicle leasing dealer's, distributor's, auction owner's or construction equipment auction license, if any ground existed upon which the license might have been refused, or if a ground exists that would be cause for refusal to issue a license.
The board may suspend or revoke any license if the licensee has in any manner violated the rules issued pursuant to sections
The attorney general and the prosecuting attorneys of the several counties shall assist the registrar of motor vehicles upon his request, and shall assist the motor vehicle dealers board, upon its request, in enforcing sections
(A) Members of the motor vehicle dealers board may hold and attend meetings and may conduct and attend hearings by means of teleconference, video conference, or any other similar electronic technology, and all of the following apply:
(5) Individuals subject to board business, including licensees, representatives, witnesses, or subject matter experts must attend the meeting in person.
(B) When members of the motor vehicle dealers board conduct a hearing by means of teleconference, video conference, or any other similar electronic technology, the board shall establish a means, through the use of electronic equipment that is widely available to the general public, to converse with witnesses and to receive documentary testimony and physical evidence.
(A) No person engaged in the business of buying retail installment contracts from motor vehicle dealers in this state, and no officer, agent, or representative of such person, shall purchase or attempt to purchase any such retail installment contract from any motor vehicle dealer in this state in the following circumstances:
(A) The applications for licenses and the copies of contracts required by sections
of the Revised Code are not part of the public records but are confidential information for the use of the registrar of motor vehicles and the motor vehicle dealers board. No person shall divulge any information contained in such applications and acquired by the person in the person's capacity as an official or employee of the bureau of motor vehicles or of the board, except in a report to the registrar, to the board, or when called upon to testify in any court or proceeding.
(A) No manufacturer or distributor of motor vehicles, dealer in motor vehicles, nor any owner, proprietor, person in control, or keeper of any garage, stable, shop, or other place of business, shall fail to keep or cause to be kept any record required by law.
Damage to body or trim of vehicle by dealer affixing placard or tag.
(A) No dealer licensed to sell motor vehicles at retail in this state under Chapter 4517. of the Revised Code shall attach to any motor vehicle offered for sale by the dealer any tag or placard bearing the dealer's name, or the name of the dealer's place of business, whenever the method of attachment involves drilling or otherwise creating holes in any part of the body or trim of the vehicle, unless the purchaser consents in writing to such method of attachment.
Any damage to the body or trim of a motor vehicle that results from a violation of this section shall, at the request of the purchaser of the vehicle, be repaired by the dealer in a manner acceptable to the purchaser, and at no cost to the purchaser.
FL xactCode title: Licensing Portal - DBPR Online Applications
=== FL DBPR 1031?
1030 Licensing Portal - DBPR Online Applications
1031 Licensing Portal - DBPR Online Applications
1032 Licensing Portal - DBPR Online Applications
1040 Licensing Portal - DBPR Online Applications
1050 Licensing Portal - DBPR Online Applications
NY ERR HTTP Error 404: Not Found https://dmv.ny.gov/business/get-dealer-license
NY ERR HTTP Error 404: Not Found https://dmv.ny.gov/business/dealer-and-transporter-licensing
NY ERR HTTP Error 404: Not Found https://dmv.ny.gov/business/dealer-transporter-licensing
