=== PAGE 226 ===
 
205 
12/27/2024  
CJISSECPOL v6.0 
 
mission/business processes, and for systems, if needed. Procedures describe how the policies or 
controls are implemented and can be directed at the individual or role that is the object of the 
procedure. Procedures can be documented in system security and privacy plans or in one or 
more separate documents. 
Events that may precipitate an update to personnel security policy and procedures include, but are 
not limited to, assessment or audit findings, security incidents or breaches, or changes in 
applicable laws, executive orders, directives, regulations, policies, standards, and guidelines. 
Simply restating controls does not constitute an organizational policy or procedure. 
Related Controls: PS-8, SI-12. 
 
PS-2 POSITION RISK DESIGNATION 
[Priority 2]  
Control: 
a. Assign a risk designation to all organizational positions; 
b. Establish screening criteria for individuals filling those positions; and 
c. Review and update position risk designations as required. 
Discussion: Position risk designations reflect Office of Personnel Management (OPM) policy 
and guidance. Proper position designation is the foundation of an effective and consistent 
suitability and personnel security program. The Position Designation System (PDS) assesses 
the duties and responsibilities of a position to determine the degree of potential damage to the 
efficiency or integrity of the service due to misconduct of an incumbent of a position and 
establishes the risk level of that position. The PDS assessment also determines if the duties and 
responsibilities of the position present the potential for position incumbents to bring about a 
material adverse effect on national security and the degree of that potential effect, which 
establishes the sensitivity level of a position. The results of the assessment determine what level 
of investigation is conducted for a position. Risk designations can guide and inform the types of 
authorizations that individuals receive when accessing organizational information and 
information systems. 
 
Position screening criteria include explicit information security role appointment requirements. 
Parts 1400 and 731 of Title 5, Code of Federal Regulations, establish the requirements for 
federal organizations to evaluate relevant covered positions for a position sensitivity and 
position risk designation commensurate with the duties and responsibilities of those positions. 
 
Related Controls: AC-5, AT-3, PE-2, PE-3, PL-2, PS-3, PS-6, SA-5, SI-12. 
 
PS-3 PERSONNEL SCREENING 
[Existing] [Priority 2]  

=== PAGE 227 ===
 
206 
12/27/2024  
CJISSECPOL v6.0 
 
Control: 
a. Screen individuals prior to authorizing access to the information system; 
1. To properly screen, state of residency and national fingerprint -based record checks shall 
be conducted. National fingerprint-based record checks must be conducted pursuant to an 
FBI approved authority such as a federal statute or a state statute approved pursuant to 
Public Law 92-544. If the person resides in a different state than that of the assigned 
agency, the agency shall also conduct  state (of the agency) record checks. When 
appropriate, the screening shall be consistent with: 
a. 5 CFR 731.106; and/or 
b. Office of Personnel Management policy, regulations, and guidance; and/or 
c. agency policy, regulations, and guidance. 
Agencies authorized to bypass state repositories in compliance with federal law must only 
conduct a national fingerprint-based record check. 
Agencies without approved statutory authority authorizing or requiring civil fingerprint -
based record checks on personnel with access to CHRI are exempt from this requirement 
until such time as appropriate statutory authority is obtained to conduct such record 
checks. 
2. All requests for access shall be made as specified by the CSO, Authorized Recipient 
Official, or IA Official.  The CSO/designee, Authorized Recipient Official/designee, or 
IA Official is authorized to approve access to CJI.  All CSO designees shall be from an 
authorized criminal justice agency. All Authorized Recipient designees shall be employed 
by the Authorized Recipient Agency. 
3. If a criminal history record of any kind exists, access to CJI shall not be granted until the 
CSO/designee, Authorized Recipient Official/designee, or IA Official reviews the matter 
to determine if access is appropriate. 
a. If a felony conviction of any kind exists, the agency shall deny access to CJI. 
However, the requesting agency may ask for a review by the CSO/designee, 
Authorized Recipient Official/designee, or IA Official in extenuating circumstances 
where the severity of the offense and the time that has passed would support a possible 
variance.  
b. Applicants with a record of misdemeanor offense(s) may be granted access if the 
CSO/designee, Authorized Recipient Official/designee, or IA Official, determines the 
nature or severity of the misdemeanor offense(s) do not warrant disqualification. 
The requesting agency may request the CSO/designee, Authorized Recipient 
Official/designee, or IA Official review a denial of access determination. 
c. If a criminal history record of any kind is found on a contractor, the CA shall be 
formally notified of continuing fitness determination and system access shall be 
delayed pending review of the criminal history record information. The CA shall in 
turn notify the contractor’s security officer. 
4. If the person appears to be a fugitive or has an arrest history without conviction, the 
CSO/designee, Authorized Recipient Official/designee , or IA Official shall review the 

=== PAGE 228 ===
 
207 
12/27/2024  
CJISSECPOL v6.0 
 
matter to determine if access to CJI is appropriate. 
5. If the person already has access to CJI and is subsequently arrested and or convicted, 
continued access to CJI shall be determined by the CSO/designee, Authorized Recipient 
Official/designee, or IA Official. This does not implicitly grant hiring/firing authority with 
the CSA, Authorized Recipient , or IA Official only the authority to grant access to CJI. 
For offenses other than felonies, the CSO/designee, Authorized Recipient 
Official/designee, or IA Official has the latitude to delegate continued access 
determinations. 
6. If the CSO/designee, Authorized Recipient Official/designee, or IA Official determines 
that access to CJI by the person would not be in the public interest, access shall be denied 
and the person's appointing authority shall be notified in writing of the access denial. 
7. The criminal and non-criminal justice agency shall maintain a list of personnel who have 
been authorized unescorted access to unencrypted CJI and shall, upon request, provide a 
current copy of the access list to the CSO/designee, Authorized Recipient 
Official/designee, or IA Official. 
and 
b. Recommend rescreening individuals in accordance with PS -3(a)(1) above. The authority 
authorized for the national fingerprint-based background check must also authorize the 
rescreening. 
Discussion: Personnel screening and rescreening activities reflect applicable laws, executive 
orders, directives, regulations, policies, standards, guidelines, and specific criteria established for 
the risk designations of assigned positions. Examples of personnel screening include background 
investigations and agency checks. 
Organizations may define different rescreening conditions and frequencies for personnel 
accessing systems based on types of information processed, stored, or transmitted by the 
systems. 
Related Controls: AC-2, IA-4, MA-5, PE-2, PS-2, PS-6, PS-7. 
 
PS-4 PERSONNEL TERMINATION 
[Priority 2]  
Control: 
Upon termination of individual employment: 
a. Disable system access within twenty-four (24) hours; 
b. Terminate or revoke any authenticators and credentials associated with the  
individual; 
c. Conduct exit interviews that include a discussion of non-disclosure of CJI and PII; 
d. Retrieve all security-related organizational system-related property; and 
e. Retain access to organizational information and systems formerly controlled by 

=== PAGE 229 ===
 
208 
12/27/2024  
CJISSECPOL v6.0 
 
terminated individual. 
Discussion: System property includes hardware authentication tokens, system administration 
technical manuals, keys, identification cards, and building passes. Exit interviews ensure that 
terminated individuals understand the security constraints imposed by being former employees 
and that proper accountability is achieved for system-related property. Security topics at exit 
interviews include reminding individuals of nondisclosure agreements and potential limitations 
on future employment. Exit interviews may not always be possible for some individuals, 
including in cases related to the unavailability of supervisors, illnesses, or job abandonment. 
Exit interviews are important for individuals with security clearances. The timely execution of 
termination actions is essential for individuals who have been terminated for cause. In certain 
situations, organizations consider disabling the system accounts of individuals who are being 
terminated prior to the individuals being notified. 
Related Controls: AC-2, IA-4, PE-2, PS-6, PS-7. 
 
PS-5 PERSONNEL TRANSFER 
[Priority 3]  
Control: 
a. Review and confirm ongoing operational need for current logical and physical access 
authorizations to systems and facilities when individuals are reassigned or transferred to 
other positions within the organization; 
b. Initiate appropriate actions such as closing and establishing accounts and changing 
system access authorizations within twenty-four (24) hours; 
c. Modify access authorization as needed to correspond with any changes in 
operational need due to reassignment or transfer; and 
d. Notify organizational personnel with information security responsibilities, 
organizational personnel with personnel security responsibilities, system/network 
administrators, and organizational personnel with account management responsibilities 
prior to personnel transfer. 
Discussion: Personnel transfer applies when reassignments or transfers of individuals are 
permanent or of such extended duration as to make the actions warranted. 
Organizations define actions appropriate for the types of reassignments or transfers, whether 
permanent or extended. Actions that may be required for personnel transfers or reassignments 
to other positions within organizations include returning old and issuing new keys, 
identification cards, and building passes; closing system accounts and establishing new 
accounts; changing system access authorizations (i.e., privileges); and providing for access to 
official records to which individuals had access at previous work locations and in previous 
system accounts. 
Related Controls: AC-2, IA-4, PE-2, PS-4, PS-7. 
 

=== PAGE 230 ===
 
209 
12/27/2024  
CJISSECPOL v6.0 
 
PS-6 ACCESS AGREEMENTS 
[Priority 4]  
Control: 
a. Develop and document access agreements for organizational systems; 
b. Review and update the access agreements at least annually; and 
c. Verify that individuals requiring access to organizational information and systems: 
1. Sign appropriate access agreements prior to being granted access; and 
2. Re-sign access agreements to maintain access to organizational systems when access 
agreements have been updated or when signatories change. 
Discussion: Access agreements include nondisclosure agreements, acceptable use agreements, 
rules of behavior, and conflict-of-interest agreements. Signed access agreements include an 
acknowledgement that individuals have read, understand, and agree to abide by the constraints 
associated with organizational systems to which access is authorized. Organizations can use 
electronic signatures to acknowledge access agreements unless specifically prohibited by 
organizational policy. 
Related Controls: AC-17, PE-2, PL-4, PS-2, PS-3, PS-6, PS-7, PS-8, SI-12. 
 
PS-7 EXTERNAL PERSONNEL SECURITY 
[Existing] [Priority 2]  
Control: 
a. Establish personnel security requirements, including security roles and 
responsibilities for external providers; 
b. Require external providers to comply with personnel security policies and 
procedures established by the organization; 
c. Document personnel security requirements; 
d. Require external providers to notify organizational personnel with information security 
responsibilities, organizational personnel with personnel security responsibilities, 
system/network administrators, or organizational personnel with account management 
responsibilities of any personnel transfers or terminations of external personnel who possess 
organizational credentials and/or badges, or who have system privileges within twenty-four 
(24) hours; and 
e. Monitor provider compliance with personnel security requirements. 
Discussion: External provider refers to organizations other than the organization operating or 
acquiring the system. External providers include service bureaus, contractors, and other 
organizations that provide system development, information technology services, testing or 
assessment services, outsourced applications, and network/security management. Organizations 
explicitly include personnel security requirements in acquisition-related documents. External 
providers may have personnel working at organizational facilities with credentials, badges, or 

=== PAGE 231 ===
 
210 
12/27/2024  
CJISSECPOL v6.0 
 
system privileges issued by organizations. Notifications of external personnel changes ensure the 
appropriate termination of privileges and credentials. Organizations define the transfers and 
terminations deemed reportable by security-related characteristics that include functions, roles, 
and the nature of credentials or privileges associated with transferred or terminated individuals. 
Related Controls: AT-2, AT-3, MA-5, PE-3, PS-2, PS-3, PS-4, PS-5, PS-6, SA-5, SA- 9. 
 
PS-8 PERSONNEL SANCTIONS 
[Priority 4]  
Control: 
a. Employ a formal sanctions process for individuals failing to comply with 
established information security and privacy policies and procedures; and 
b. Notify organizational personnel with information security responsibilities, organizational 
personnel with personnel security responsibilities, system/network administrators, or 
organizational personnel with account management responsibilities within twenty-four 
(24) hours when a formal employee sanctions process is initiated, identifying the 
individual sanctioned and the reason for the sanction. 
Discussion: Organizational sanctions reflect applicable laws, executive orders, directives, 
regulations, policies, standards, and guidelines. Sanctions processes are described in access 
agreements and can be included as part of general personnel policies for organizations and/or 
specified in security and privacy policies. 
Organizations consult with the Office of the General Counsel regarding matters of employee 
sanctions. 
Related Controls: All XX-1 Controls, PL-4, PS-6. 
 
PS-9 POSITION DESCRIPTIONS 
[Priority 4]  
Control: 
Incorporate security and privacy roles and responsibilities into organizational position 
descriptions. 
Discussion: Specification of security and privacy roles in individual organizational position 
descriptions facilitates clarity in understanding the security or privacy responsibilities 
associated with the roles and the role-based security and privacy training requirements for the 
roles. 
 
 
 
 

=== PAGE 232 ===
 
211 
12/27/2024  
CJISSECPOL v6.0 
 
Figure 13 – Personnel Security Use Cases 
Use Case 1 – A Local Police Department’s Personnel Security Controls 
A local police department implemented a replacement CAD system that integrated to their 
state’s CSA and was authorized to process CJI.  In addition to the physical and technical controls 
already in place, the police department implemented a variety of personnel security controls to 
reduce the insider threat.  The police department used background screening consistent with the 
FBI CJIS Security Policy to vet those with unescorted access to areas in which CJI is processed, 
including the IT administrators employed by a contractor and all janitorial staff.  The police 
department established sanctions against any vetted person found to be in violation of stated 
policies.  The police department re -evaluated each person’s suitability for access to CJI every 
five years. 
Use Case 2 – Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS) Cloud Service Implementation 
This model provides the consumer the capability to provision processing, storage, networks, 
and other fundamental computing resources where the consumer is able to deploy and run 
arbitrary software, including operating systems and applications. 
When using the IaaS service model the consumer may have control over operating systems, 
storage, and deployed applications; and possibly limited control of select networking 
components (e.g., host firewalls), but does not manage or control the underlying cloud 
infrastructure – as defined in Appendix G.3. 
A local agency implements an IaaS solution in a cloud environment leveraging an agency -
implemented secure virtual private cloud which has been identified to meet the appropriate 
security controls in the CJIS Security Policy.  The agency maintains sole access to the encryption 
keys.  In this scenario, cloud service provider personnel have no logical or physical access to 
any information system resulting in the ability, right, or privilege to view, modify, or make use 
of unencrypted CJI; therefore, no fingerprint -based background checks are required to comply 
with the CJIS Security Policy.  Refer to Appendix G.3 Cloud Computing for additional 
implementation guidance. 
 
Use Case 3 – Platform as a Service (PaaS) Cloud Service Implementation 
 
This model provides the consumer the capability to deploy consumer -created or acquired 
applications* created using programming languages, libraries, services, and tools supported 
by the provider onto the cloud infrastructure. 
 
 * This capability does not necessarily preclude the use of compatible programming 
languages, libraries, services, and tools from other sources. 

=== PAGE 367 ===
 
12/27/2024  
CJISSECPOL v6.0 
G.3-1 
G.3 Cloud Computing 
 
 
Cloud Computing 
 
Purpose: 
 
This paper is provided to define and describe cloud computing, discuss CJIS Security Policy 
(CSP) compliance, detail security and privacy, and provide general recommendations.          
Attribution: 
 
• NIST SP 800-144, Guidelines on Security and Privacy in Public Cloud Computing (Dec. 
2011) 
• NIST SP 800-145, the NIST Definition of Cloud Computing (Sept. 2011) 
• NIST SP 800-146, Cloud Computing Synopsis and Recommendations (May 2011)  
• CJIS Security Policy, Version 5.0 
 
Definitions and Terms: 
 
Cloud computing – A distributed computing model that permits on- demand network access to a 
shared pool of configurable computing resources (e.g., networks, servers, storage, applications, 
and services), software, and information. 
 
Cloud subscriber – A person or organization that is a customer of a cloud 
 
Cloud client – A machine or software application that accesses a cloud over a network connection, 
perhaps on behalf of a subscriber 
 
Cloud provider – An organization that provides cloud services 
 
Summary:  
 
With many law enforcement agencies looking for ways to attain greater efficiency while grappling 
with reduced budgets, the idea of cloud computing to maintain data and applications is a viable 
business solution.  But the unique security and legal character istics of law enforcement agencies 
means any migration to cloud services may be challenging.  Anytime the security of information 
and transactions must be maintained, as it must be with access to the FBI’s CJIS systems and the 
protection of Criminal Justic e Information (CJI), security and policy compliance concerns are 
bound to arise. 
 

=== PAGE 368 ===
 
12/27/2024  
CJISSECPOL v6.0 
G.3-2 
Cloud computing has become a popular and sometimes contentious topic of discussion for both 
the private and public sectors.  This is in part because of the difficulty in describing cloud 
computing in general terms, because it is not a single kind of system.  The “cloud” spans a spectrum 
of underlying technologies, configuration possibilities, service and deployment models.  C loud 
computing offers the ability to conveniently rent access to fully featured applications, software 
development and deployment envi ronments, and computing infrastructure assets -  such as 
network-accessible data storage and processing from a cloud service provider.   
  
One of the benefits of cloud computing is the ability to outsource many of the technical functions 
agencies may not want to perform for various reasons. Ultimately, the move to cloud computing 
is a business and security risk decision in which the following relevant factors are given proper 
consideration:   
 
• readiness of existing applications for cloud deployment  
• transition costs  
• life-cycle costs  
• maturity of service orientation in existing infrastructure  
• security and privacy requirements – federal, state, and local 
 
Achieving CJIS Security Policy Compliance: 
 
The question that is often asked is, “Can an Agency be compliant with the CJIS Security Policy  
and also cloud compute?” 
 
Because the CJIS Security Policy  is device and architecture independent (per CSP Section  2.2), 
the answer is yes, and this can be accomplished— assuming the vendor of the cloud technology is 
able to meet the existing requirements of the CJIS Security Policy. 
 
There are security challenges that must be addressed if CJI is to be sent into or through, stored 
within, or accessed from the cloud.   
 
Admittedly, the existing CJIS Security Policy  requirements may be difficult for some cloud-
computing vendors due to the sheer numbers and the geographic disbursement of their personnel; 
however, the requirements aren’t new to vendors serving the criminal justice community and many 
vendors have been successfully meeting the Policy  requirements for years.  Even so, they are the 
minimum security requirements which will provide an acceptable level of assurance that law 
enforcement and personally identifiable information (PII) will be protected when shared with other 
law enforcement agencies across the nation.   
General CJIS Security Policy Applicability Questions 

=== PAGE 369 ===
 
12/27/2024  
CJISSECPOL v6.0 
G.3-3 
Before tackling these challenges, the cloud subscriber should first be aware of what security and 
legal requirements they are subject to prior to entering into any agreement with a cloud provider.  
Asking the following general questions will help frame the process of determining compliance 
with the existing requirements of the CJIS Security Policy. 
 
• Will access to Criminal Justice Information (CJI) within a cloud environment fall within 
the category of remote access? (5.5.6 Remote Access) 
 
• Will advanced authentication (AA) be required for access to CJI within a cloud 
environment? (5.6.2.2 Advanced Authentication, 5.6.2.2.1 Advanced Authentication 
Policy and Rationale) 
 
• Does/do any cloud service provider’s datacenter(s) used in the transmission or storage of 
CJI meet all the requirements of a physically secure location? (5.9.1 Physically Secure 
Location) 
 
• Are the encryption requirements being met? (5.10.1.2 Encryption) 
o Who will be providing the encryption as required in the CJIS Security Policy 
(client or cloud service provider)? Note: individuals with access to the keys can 
decrypt the stored files and therefore have access to unencrypted CJI. 
o Is the data encrypted while at rest and in transit? 
 
• What are the cloud service provider’s incident response procedures? (5.3 Policy Area 3: 
Incident Response) 
o Will the cloud subscriber be notified of any incident? 
o If CJI is compromised, what are the notification and response procedures? 
 
• Is the cloud service provider a private contractor/vendor? 
o If so, they are subject to the same screening and agreement requirements as any 
other private contractors hired to handle CJI? (5.1.1.5 Private Contractor User 
Agreements and CJIS Security Addendum; 5.12.1.2 Personnel Screening for 
Contractors and Vendors) 
 
• Will the cloud service provider allow the CSA and FBI to conduct compliance and 
security audits? Note: Cloud facilities such as datacenters in which CJI will be stored or 
processed should be audited as would any other datacenter housing and processing CJI. 
(5.11.1 Audits by the FBI CJIS Division; 5.11.2 Audits by the CSA) 
 

=== PAGE 370 ===
 
12/27/2024  
CJISSECPOL v6.0 
G.3-4 
• How will event and content logging be handled? (5.4 Policy Area 4, Auditing and 
Accountability)  
o Will the cloud service provider handle the events and content logging required by 
the CJIS Security Policy and provide that upon request? 
o What are the cloud service provider’s responsibilities with regard to media 
protection and destruction? (5.8 Policy Area 8: Media Protection) 
 
Ultimately, the goal is to remain committed to using technology in its information sharing 
processes, but not at the sacrifice of the security of the information with which it has been 
entrusted.  As stated in the CJIS Security Policy, device and architecture independence permits the 
use of cloud computing, but the security requirements do not change.   
 
Cloud Utilization Scenarios 
1. Encrypted CJI in a Cloud Environment–Key Management Control, Security Awareness 
Training, and Personnel Controls 
 
Prior to permitting CJI to be stored or traverse through a cloud environment, the agency 
should ensure proper encryption key management control procedures are implemented to 
determine who has access and control over the encryption keys. Proper key management 
control is vital to CJI security as those individuals (agency or cloud employees) with 
access to the keys can decrypt the stored files, and therefore, have unescorted access to 
unencrypted CJI. This means all those individuals must be subjected to security 
awareness training (CJIS Security Policy section 5.2) and must meet personnel security 
(CJIS Security Policy Section 5.12) requirements as individuals with unescorted access to 
unencrypted CJI.
 
 
Note: As a best security practice, the CJIS ISO Program does not recommend allowing 
the cloud service provider access to the encryption keys used to protect CJI. However, it 
may not always be reasonable to expect the agency, criminal justice or noncriminal 
justice, to accomplish this task. 
 
Note: When selecting a cloud service provider, the CJIS ISO Program reminds agencies 
the CJIS Security Policy sets the minimum requirements for the protection of CJI. 
Additional security assurances from other authorizations such as FedRAMP, StateRAMP, 
SOC Type 2, etc., may be leveraged, however, they do not guarantee compliance with the 
CJIS Security Policy. 
 
a. Scenario 1–Agency Stores CJI in a Cloud: 
A CJA stores encrypted CJI (Backup files and drives) in a cloud service provider’s 
environment. To access CJI, the agency will extract the CJI from the cloud to its local 
machine, and then decrypt the CJI. The CJI is processed, re-encrypted, and then re-
uploaded to the cloud environment for storage. In this scenario, the agency always 
encrypts the CJI prior to placing it in the cloud and only authorized users of the 
agency have access to the encryption keys. Since the agency maintains the encryption 

=== PAGE 371 ===
 
12/27/2024  
CJISSECPOL v6.0 
G.3-5 
keys, the cloud service provider employees would not need to undergo fingerprint-
based background checks, nor have security awareness training. These requirements 
are negated, because only authorized personnel with access to the keys have the 
ability to view this CJI in an unencrypted form.
 
 
b. Scenario 2–Agency Accesses CJI While in a Cloud: 
A CJA stores CJI (files and drives) in a cloud service provider’s environment, but as 
part of daily operations authorized users will remotely access the encrypted CJI in the 
cloud. The user will decrypt the CJI while it is in the cloud’s virtual environment, 
process the data, and then re-encrypt the data prior to ending the remote session. The 
agency maintains the keys and the cloud service provider does not have access to the 
encryption keys. However, since the CJI is decrypted within the cloud’s virtual 
environment, any administrative personnel employed by the cloud provider having 
the ability to access the virtual environment must be identified and subjected to 
security awareness training and personnel security controls as described in the CJIS 
Security Policy.
 
 
c. Scenario 3–CJI Impact from a Cloud Datacenter Critical Systems Crash–Core Dump* 
Recovery: 
A CJA utilizes a cloud service provider (IaaS or PaaS) to store CJI and remotely 
accesses the environment to process CJI. During normal operation, the cloud provider 
experiences systems outages within the datacenter in which CJI is processed and 
stored. The cloud provider’s administrators need to repair the systems and restore 
service using data from a core dump to return to normal operations. The cloud service 
provider as part of the Service Level Agreement (SLA) with the CJA has been 
authorized to maintain the encryption keys in order respond to such an event. The 
cloud administrators with such access have underwent fingerprint-based background 
checks and security awareness training. This allows the cloud administrators to 
decrypt CJI so that it is written to the core dump files for restoration following the 
system outage. CJI, however, is encrypted at all times except when part of the core 
dump files. As part of the SLA, the cloud service provider has agreed to treat the core 
dump files as CJI to ensure all protection are in place in compliance with the CJIS 
Security Policy.
 
 
Note: Writing encrypted data to a core dump corrupts the data and makes it unusable 
because the key no longer decrypts the data. This is problematic when attempting to 
recover encrypted data written to a core dump. The CJA could have ensured the 
cloud provider exclude encrypted data (CJI) from the core dump, but chose against it. 
 
* Core Dump - A file of a computer’s documented memory of when a program or 
computer crashed. The file consists of the recorded status of the working memory at 
an explicit time, usually close to when the system crashed or when the program ended 
atypically as it presents the risk that the system failure would ensure the loss of the 
encrypted data. 
 

=== PAGE 372 ===
 
12/27/2024  
CJISSECPOL v6.0 
G.3-6 
The Cloud Model Explained: 
Cloud computing is a model for enabling ubiquitous, convenient, on-demand network access to a 
shared pool of configurable computing resources (e.g., networks, servers, storage, applications, 
and services) that can be rapidly provisioned and released with minimal management effort or 
service provider interaction.  
 
The cloud model as defined by NIST consists of five essential characteristics, offers the option of 
three service models, and may be deployed via any of four deployment models as shown in 
Figure 1 below: 
 
 
 
       
        Figure 1 - Visual Depiction of the NIST Cloud Computing Definition 
 
Essential Characteristics:  
 
On-demand self-service 
A consumer can unilaterally provision computing capabilities, such as server time and 
network storage, as needed automatically without requiring human interaction with each 
service provider.  
 
Broad network access 
Capabilities are available over the network and accessed through standard mechanisms 
that promote use by heterogeneous thin or thick client platforms (e.g., mobile phones, 
tablets, laptops, and workstations).  
 
Resource pooling 


=== PAGE 373 ===
 
12/27/2024  
CJISSECPOL v6.0 
G.3-7 
The provider’s computing resources are pooled to serve multiple consumers using a 
multi-tenant model, with different physical and virtual resources dynamically assigned 
and reassigned according to consumer demand. There is a sense of location independence 
in which the customer generally has no control or knowledge over the exact location of 
the provided resources but may be able to specify location at a higher level of abstraction 
(e.g., country, state, or datacenter). Examples of resources include storage, processing, 
memory, and network bandwidth.  
 
Rapid elasticity 
Capabilities can be elastically provisioned and released, in some cases automatically, to 
scale rapidly outward and inward commensurate with demand. To the consumer, the 
capabilities available for provisioning often appear to be unlimited and can be 
appropriated in any quantity at any time.  
 
 
Measured service 
Cloud systems automatically control and optimize resource use by leveraging a metering 
capability* at some level of abstraction appropriate to the type of service (e.g., storage, 
processing, bandwidth, and active user accounts). Resource usage can be monitored, 
controlled, and reported, providing transparency for both the provider and consumer of 
the utilized service.  
 
* Typically this is done on a pay-per-use or charge-per-use basis.  
 
Deployment Models:  
 
Private cloud 
The cloud infrastructure is provisioned for exclusive use by a single organization 
comprising multiple consumers (e.g., business units). It may be owned, managed, and 
operated by the organization, a third party, or some combination of them, and it may exist 
on or off premises.  
 
Community cloud 
The cloud infrastructure is provisioned for exclusive use by a specific community of 
consumers from organizations that have shared concerns (e.g., mission, security 
requirements, policy, and compliance considerations). It may be owned, managed, and 
operated by one or more of the organizations in the community, a third party, or some 
combination of them, and it may exist on or off premises.  
 
Public cloud 
The cloud infrastructure is provisioned for open use by the general public. It may be 
owned, managed, and operated by a business, academic, or government organization, or 
some combination of them. It exists on the premises of the cloud provider.  
 
Hybrid cloud 

=== PAGE 374 ===
 
12/27/2024  
CJISSECPOL v6.0 
G.3-8 
The cloud infrastructure is a composition of two or more distinct cloud infrastructures 
(private, community, or public) that remain unique entities, but are bound together by 
standardized or proprietary technology that enables data and application portabil ity (e.g., 
cloud bursting for load balancing between clouds). 
 
Service Models:  
 
Cloud providers offer different levels of service, i.e.; Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS), Platform 
as a Service (PaaS), and Software as a Service (SaaS).  The way CJI is placed and accessed in 
the cloud determines if the personnel security requirements in Section 5.12 apply.  Access to 
encryption keys and management of the resources vary depending on what type of service is 
used.  The SaaS offering is the most likely service wherein the cloud service provider may have 
access to unencrypted CJI due to software updates, patches, and management.  However, through 
management and control of encryption keys, all service offerings may be implemented in an 
agency-controlled manner where the cloud service provider has no ability to access unencrypted 
CJI.   
 
For cloud computing services that involve the storage, processing, or transmission of CJI, 
Section 5.12 security terms and requirements apply to all personnel when their unescorted logical 
or physical access to any information system results in the ability, right, or privilege to view, 
modify, or make use of unencrypted CJI.  It is critical for the agency to understand the level of 
service and access required for each cloud implementation. 
 
Software as a Service (SaaS)  
This model provides the consumer the capability to use the provider’s applications 
running on a cloud infrastructure*.  
 
* A cloud infrastructure is the collection of hardware and software that enables 
the five essential characteristics of cloud computing. The cloud infrastructure can 
be viewed as containing both a physical layer and an abstraction layer. The 
physical layer consists of the hardware resources that are necessary to support 
the cloud services being provided, and typically includes server, storage and 
network components. The abstraction layer consists of the software deployed 
across the physical layer, which manifests the essential cloud characteristics. 
Conceptually the abstraction layer sits above the physical layer.  
 
The SaaS service model is often referred to as “Software deployed as a hosted service 
and accessed over the Internet.” 
 
The applications are accessible from various client devices through either a thin client 
interface, such as a web browser (e.g., web-based email), or a program interface.  
 
When using the SaaS service model it should be understood that the consumer does not 
manage or control the underlying cloud infrastructure including network, servers, 
operating systems, storage, or even individual application capabilities, with the possible 
exception of limited user-specific application configuration settings.  

=== PAGE 375 ===
 
12/27/2024  
CJISSECPOL v6.0 
G.3-9 
 
Platform as a Service (PaaS)  
This model provides the consumer the capability to deploy consumer-created or acquired 
applications* created using programming languages, libraries, services, and tools 
supported by the provider onto the cloud infrastructure.  
 
* This capability does not necessarily preclude the use of compatible 
programming languages, libraries, services, and tools from other sources.  
 
When using the PaaS service model the consumer may have control over the deployed 
applications and possibly configuration settings for the application-hosting environment, 
but does not manage or control the underlying cloud infrastructure including network, 
servers, operating systems, or storage.  
 
Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS)  
This model provides the consumer the capability to provision processing, storage, 
networks, and other fundamental computing resources where the consumer is able to 
deploy and run arbitrary software, including operating systems and applications.  
 
When using the IaaS service model the consumer may have control over operating 
systems, storage, and deployed applications; and possibly limited control of select 
networking components (e.g., host firewalls), but does not manage or control the 
underlying cloud infrastructure.  
 
Key Security and Privacy Issues: 
 
Although the emergence of cloud computing is a recent development, insights into critical aspects 
of security can be gleaned from reported experiences of early adopters and also from researchers 
analyzing and experimenting with available cloud provider platforms and associated technologies. 
The sections below highlight privacy and security- related issues that are believed to have long -
term significance for public cloud computing and, in many cases, for other cloud computing 
service models.  
 
Because cloud computing has grown out of an amalgamation of technologies, including service 
oriented architecture, virtualization, Web 2.0, and utility computing, many of the privacy and 
security issues involved can be viewed as known problems cast in a ne w setting. The importance 
of their combined effect in this setting, however, should not be discounted. Public cloud computing 
does represent a thought -provoking paradigm shift from conventional norms to an open 
organizational infrastructure —at the extreme,  displacing applications from one organization’s 
infrastructure to the infrastructure of another organization, where the applications of potential 
adversaries may also operate.  
 
Governance  

=== PAGE 376 ===
 
12/27/2024  
CJISSECPOL v6.0 
G.3-10 
 
Governance implies control and oversight by the organization over policies, procedures, and 
standards for application development and information technology service acquisition, as well as 
the design, implementation, testing, use, and monitoring of deploye d or engaged services. With 
the wide availability of cloud computing services, lack of organizational controls over employees 
engaging such services arbitrarily can be a source of problems. While cloud computing simplifies 
platform acquisition, it doesn't alleviate the need for governance; instead, it has the opposite effect, 
amplifying that need.  
 
Dealing with cloud services requires attention to the roles and responsibilities involved between 
the organization and cloud provider, particularly with respect to managing risks and ensuring 
organizational requirements are met. Ensuring systems are secure  and risk is managed is 
challenging in any environment and even more daunting with cloud computing. Audit mechanisms 
and tools should be in place to determine how data is stored, protected, and used, to validate 
services, and to verify policy enforcement. A risk management program should also be in place 
that is flexible enough to deal with the continuously evolving and shifting risk landscape. 
 
 
Compliance  
 
Compliance refers to an organization’s responsibility to operate in agreement with established 
laws, regulations, standards, and specifications. Various types of security and privacy laws and 
regulations exist within different countries at the national, state, and local levels, making 
compliance a potentially complicated issue for cloud computing.  
 
Law and Regulations  
Cloud providers are becoming more sensitive to legal and regulatory concerns, and may be 
willing to commit to store and process data in specific jurisdictions and apply required 
safeguards for security and privacy. However, the degree to which they will accept liability 
in their service agreements, for exposure of content under their control, remains to be seen. 
Even so, organizations are ultimately accountable for the security and privacy of data held 
by a cloud provider on their behalf.  
 
Data Location 
One of the most common compliance issues facing an organization is data location. A 
characteristic of many cloud computing services is that data is stored redundantly in 
multiple physical locations and detailed information about the location of an organization’s 
data is unavailable or not disclosed to the service consumer. This situation makes it difficult 
to ascertain whether sufficient safeguards are in place and whether legal and regulatory 

